Johannesburg - Thuso Mbedu and Nomzamo Mbatha are making waves in the US and flying the SA flag high. Mbatha will be on screens from Saturday on Amazon as part of the cast of Coming 2 America. The film – starring Eddie Murphy, Wesley Snipes, Leslie Jones, Tracy Morgan,Teyana Taylor, among other stars – is set in the royal country of Zamunda, where newly-crowned King Akeem (Murphy) and his trusted confidante Semmi (Arsenio Hall) embark on an all-new hilarious adventure that has them traversing the globe from their great African nation to the borough of Queens, New York – where it all began. Original cast favourites from Coming to America return, including King Jaffe Joffer (James Earl Jones), Queen Lisa (Shari Headley), Cleo McDowell (John Amos), Maurice (Louie Anderson) and the motley barbershop crew. This long-awaited sequel to the iconic comedy Coming to America will launch worldwide in more than 240 countries and territories on Prime Video. “Coming to America was a cultural phenomenon that is one of the mostloved and celebrated comedies of all time,” said Jennifer Salke, head of Amazon Studios. “Thanks to Eddie Murphy’s comedic genius, along with the brilliant film-makers, writers and fabulous cast, we couldn’t be more excited to celebrate this new adventure. We know audiences around the world will fall in love with this hilarious, joyful movie that will surely become a timeless favourite." Mbatha, who plays the character of Mirembe, can’t wait for the South African audience to meet her character. She told the Hollywood Reporter that so many people back home had watched the original Coming to America as their first cinema experience. The 30-year-old said she remembered going to get her work visa stamped into her passport and the woman at the counter told her not to mess up the opportunity coming her way. She said the film has felt like her own personal coming to America story as she was surrounded by Hollywood royalty every day. Amazon Studios has acquired worldwide rights to Coming 2 America from Paramount Pictures. Mbedu stars in the lead role of American production The Underground Railroad. It tells the story of Cora Randall, JazzFix an adaptation of a novel by Colson Whitehead with the same name. She told Dazed Magazine she auditioned for the role in 2018 while in New York for the Emmys. The 29-year-old is not one to make a big deal about a role. She only got on the bandwagon after the local media started publicising it. For her, it’s all about the role and making sure she does the best she can. The Barry Jenkins film The Underground Railroad will premiere on Amazon Prime Video. The Star