Johannesburg - Colleagues of Wits University shooting victim Mthokozisi Ntumba said they were devastated by the tragic manner in which he died. City of Tshwane’s MMC for Housing and Human Settlements Mpho Mehlape-Zimu confirmed that Ntumba was an employee of the municipality and described him as a diligent, resourceful human settlement planner in the department. Speaking to The Star on Thursday, Ntumba’s colleagues expressed how saddened they were to learn of his tragic passing on Wednesday. They said his death set a sombre mood in the office, as everyone mourned his passing. Ntumba, who was described as humble and family-oriented by his colleagues, was shot and killed by police on Wednesday morning during a protest by Wits University students in Braamfontein. Ntumba, a married father of three, the youngest child being less than a year old, had just completed a Master’s degree. Mfana Maluleka, who worked with Ntumba for nearly five years at the Department of Human Settlements in Tshwane, said his death came as a shock to all. “I was very shocked to learn of his passing. “He was very humble, we would always joke around, he was a beautiful soul who never had issues with anyone. “He was very hard-working and family-orientated, and he was liked by everybody. “What hurts the most is that his kids are going to grow up without a father. I am numb; I didn’t expect this at all, especially in the manner in which he died. The worst part was also seeing the images and footage on social media. “As much as we sympathise with people that lost loved ones like this, I have to admit it hits differently when it’s closer to home. We are really shattered. My concern is with his family and children, and I hope those who are responsible will be brought to book. All we want is justice for Mthokozisi.” Another colleague, who asked not to be named, said that he had briefly worked closely with Mthokozisi at the department, and had never met someone who was so diligent and dedicated to his work, family and school. “In the time I worked closely with Mthokozisi, I had never seen someone who worked so tirelessly towards his goals. In the few times we had personal conversations, I learnt a lot about how dedicated he was to his family and achieving his dreams. “I am deeply hurt; he did not deserve to die in this manner,” said the colleague. The department in a statement expressed their deepest condolences to the Ntumba family. “Mthokozisi was a diligent, selfdriven and resourceful member of the Human Settlements Department. “He was someone who thrived in being part of the team responsible for the upliftment of disadvantaged communities. We express our sincerest condolences to his family, colleagues and friends. He will surely be missed. “May his soul rest in peace,” MMC Mehlape-Zimu said. The Star