The government has proposed the introduction of a basic universal income grant for South Africa’s unemployed youth. This is detailed in the final National Youth Policy 2020-2030 (NYP 2030). The basic grant intervention was one of many proposed to solve the country’s youth unemployment crisis. Official data released recently estimated that the unemployment rate among the country’s youth stood at a devastating 55.75%. The NYP 2030 reflected that youth unemployment has been declared a crisis by the government. The 48-page document prepared by the Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities proposed a Basic Universal Income Grant for Unemployed Youth. This should “support young people and young discouraged job-seekers’ efforts to enter the labour market”. It should be “an incentive similar to the Covid-19 Social Relief of Distress grant primarily to support youth to transition into employment or entrepreneurship”, said the NYP 2030. “All young people deserve access to decent employment,” said the policy document. “Most young people are discouraged with the labour market and also not building on their skills base through education and training.” The experience requirement for entry level jobs should be abolished across the labour market, said the NYP 2030. This would “enable more youth to enter the labour market and gain experience on the job”. But the country’s youth faced another major crisis on the education and training front. A huge percentage were without a matric certificate. “The major contributor to poverty, inequality and unemployment among the youth is the low levels of educational attainment and skills,” said the NYP 2030. “Large numbers of learners are dropping out of secondary school education without obtaining the National Senior Certificate or Grade 12, a Further Education and Training or an Adult based Education and Training certificate. “About 60% of South Africa’s youth have either left school before matric or have failed their matric exam and are left without any kind of recognised educational qualification.” The policy document called for a “multifaceted approach” to strengthen basic education, reduce drop-out rates and increase skills provision. The Department of Basic Education, in partnership with private providers and civil society, should support learners who need a second chance to pass matric, it said. “Matric rewrite projects should be supported and publicised.” Bridging programmes for youth without matric should also be introduced in TVET colleges, urged the document, and entrepreneurship education should be introduced in schools. The policy interventions were intended to change the lives of the youth, Minister of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities Maite Nkoana-Mashabane said in the NYP 2030. “Policy development is about changing lives, dealing with the worst suffering of the youth due to not getting a job.” The Star