Johannesburg - Lala Tuku was 13 years old when she had her first taste of the entertainment industry. “I was introduced to the arts at a very young age, as a performer doing theatre. Back at that time, we didn’t know that we could have a ‘career’ in this industry so, in my mom’s mind, I was going to become a chartered accountant.” The opportunity for her to attend the National School of the Arts, and study drama as one of the first black children there, opened her to a new world. Tuku majored in directing and, once she got into the industry, what she found was that the representation of women was only a hand-count. “It was a daunting yet exciting time to be getting into the industry. Daunting because it was a predominantly male industry. Black women in particular weren’t represented. I came in wanting to direct and I was told that I had a pretty face and should do acting because there were no female directors, let alone black women.” Tuku did just that but, after a while, she realised that the stories being told weren’t being told from a black point of view. She said the biggest challenge at the time was the fact that, because there were so few women in higher roles, there was no one to talk to when men misused their power. “I remember driving off a set and walking away from a television soapie. People don’t do that. When you get the work, you have to keep the work but there was something that was incredibly wrong and I walked away. I got word that I would never work again in the industry, and I was confronted with a lot of ‘you have to do what you are told.’” Tuku then decided to study for a marketing and communications degree. This led her to open her marketing company Corporate Icon, which specialised in events. “I went back into the entertainment industry when an opportunity with the National Film and Video Foundation arose. I came in as an events co-ordinator for the Saftas and moved on to become a stakeholder manager, and I was responsible for the international relations – for building and understanding the gaps in our industry. There were no female or black developed writers, and other people would continue to tell our stories. You cannot be what you cannot see. It is important what our children see on the screens.” She went on to join Clive Morris Productions. “As a producer, I get the privilege of creating stories that best represent who we are. And because there are a few of us, you have to represent everyone else.” She is an executive producer for BET’s Isono and the upcoming SABC 3 series The Estate. Tuku wears many hats – producer, actress, designer, mentor and businesswoman. She attributes her “go-getter“attitude to being intentional and focused in her work. She now mentors younger talent through her NPO. She saw a space for young women who had a similar background to hers, and wanted to be part of the industry. As the chairperson of the Africa Rising International Film Festival, she feels this is where real change can happen in the industry. “For us to rise as Africa, we have to celebrate our history and local content.” Lala Land was a passion project she started while she was in a difficult place. “I suffered a meltdown about two years ago, and it met me at a point where I was just on the go. As black people, we don’t talk about depression or exhaustion, so Lala Land for me is creating the sleepwear that I wanted.” Tuku celebrated her 40th birthday last week, and it was a star-studded affair. The biggest lesson she has learnt over the years is to unashamedly be herself. “When you are honest with yourself, you know which spaces you can participate in, what you are good at. No matter who says what to you, you know what you bring to the table.” The Star