Johannesburg - Efficient response from Interpol has resulted in the arrest of four foreign nationals implicated in the distribution of a fake Covid-19 vaccine in Germiston. This comes after a global alert issued by Interpol, warning that vaccines had become a prime target for criminal networks. Thereafter, South African authorities managed to seize thousands of doses of a fake Covid-19 vaccine. Interpol said 400 ampoules, equivalent to about 2 400 doses, containing the fake vaccine were found at a warehouse in Germiston, where officers also recovered a large quantity of fake 3M masks and arrested three Chinese nationals and a Zambian. In China, police raided the premises of a network selling counterfeit Covid-19 vaccines, resulting in the arrest of 80 suspects and the seizure of more than 3000 ampoules of fake vaccine. The probe was supported and facilitated by Interpol’s Illicit Goods and Global Health Programme. The international criminal police unit said the arrests came just weeks after Interpol issued an Orange Notice warning law enforcement to prepare for organised crime networks targeting Covid-19 vaccines, both physically and online. “The alert also included details and images of genuine vaccines and authorised shipping methods provided by pharmaceutical companies to assist in the identification of fake vials. It again underlined the unique role played by Interpol in ensuring law enforcement across its 194 member countries are updated on crime trends and can swiftly and securely exchange information.” Interpol secretary-general Jürgen Stock said while they welcomed this result, it was only the tip of the iceberg. “Following our warning that criminals would target the distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, both on and off-line, Interpol continues to provide its full support to national authorities working to protect the health and safety of their citizens.” Police national spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo said since Covid-19 reached the shores of South Africa, the government had adopted an integrated multidisciplinary law enforcement approach. “This, together with our association with counterparts from all Interpol member countries, is proving to be very effective as we have seen in the arrests of foreign nationals attempting to peddle fake vaccines… within South Africa.” Interpol stated that investigations were continuing, and in addition to the arrests in South Africa and China, it was receiving additional reports of fake vaccine distribution and scam attempts targeting health bodies. “Interpol is again warning the public that no approved vaccines are currently available for sale online. Any vaccine advertised on websites … will not be legitimate, will not have been tested and may be dangerous. Anyone who buys these drugs is putting themselves at risk and giving their money to organised criminals.” The Star