Johannesburg - Senzo Vilakazi is best known by his stage name Kwesta – the award winning, anthem-creating superstar. The Ngud hitmaker is back with his fourth studio album. He released the first single from the album last Friday. Titled Fire in the Ghetto, the single features Troublle and explores the frustration people who live in the townships, ekasi, have with the government. “The inspiration behind Fire In The Ghetto was frustration and also care, when you feel like the powers that be and the people who are in positions of leadership, have turned their backs on ikasi, especially now with the pandemic, it seems that the ikasi must take care of themselves without the perks of being under South African government,” he said. With this lead single, he added, he wanted to talk about something that bothered him personally. “I honestly felt like it would have been a little too easy for me say ‘asib’shayeni’ (let’s drink). But this issue bothers me personally also. It’s high time we challenge the powers that be to account for the fires in the ghetto. I feel like this messaging is needed right now.” Kwesta is loved for the authenticity of his township story, a working recipe that Mr Dakar, as he has been nicknamed, knows how to use in all his records. He said for this upcoming album, he was definitely challenging himself musically. “There will always be vintage Kwesta stuff but I really stretched myself on this one and tried to play on territories that are not typical of me. It’s less about being the hottest rapper out and more about positivity and really good music.” His album DaKAR II remains the highest-selling South African hip hop album since its release in 2016 and the rapper celebrated that with an exclusive airing of the 5 Years of Kwesta’s DaKAR II special on Channel O last month. By 2019 the album was certified 10 times platinum. DaKAR II includes the smash hits Ngud featuring Cassper Nyovest, Ngiyaz’fela Ngawe featuring Thabsie and Mayibabo featuring DJ Maphorisa, DJ Buckz and OkMalumkoolkat, among other hits. Kwesta said his creative process, especially with this album, had been different because he normally finds inspiration from people and places. “Since we were in lockdown for a year, that proved difficult. I went to all the lessons I have learnt as a human being and as a famous being to put this one together.” He added that there had been major changes in the music business because of the pandemic. “From virtual performances and interviews to brand partnerships for social media, I have personally had to apply myself to understanding how it all works and unlearn traditional ways of doing things. It opens everything up though, which is really cool to see,” he said. If there was one thing he could change about the industry, it was getting rid of the “so-called gatekeepers”. In his single Fire in the Ghetto, the chorus lyrics go: “Power my People, My father my leader, my mother my teacher, my brother my keeper, my sister my healer, my Sarafina, baba wami my leader, empower my dreamers”, something many people will relate to. The single is available on all streaming platforms. The Star