Johannesburg - Award -winning author Onkarabile Mokoto has finally got a breakthrough in the Gauteng education sector. Mokoto, 35, has been selected to supply school libraries in the province with two of his books, Power Of Planning and Rule Through Your Knowledge. According to Mokoto, his books were selected through the province’s young author programme, where his works stood out from other entries. “About 117 copies of each book have been ordered by the Department of Education and they will be distributed to various school libraries,” he said. Mokoto said that Power of Planning encouraged people to take their lives seriously and to have a proper plan in life. Mokoto said there was a need to instil this mentality at a school level, so that schools can produce well-rounded learners. “Nothing is wrong with our curriculum at our schools but beyond that I feel that there is a need to educate and inform our pupils on the importance of planning and shaping them.” The self-published author told The Star that Rule Through Your Knowledge outlines the importance of knowledge in life. “One needs to note and gain knowledge in life. I believe you cannot dominate in any area of life without that particular knowledge.” Mokoto said the book also highlighted the importance of reading in the first chapter. “This is a basic skill for every school pupil. Now it is how they view this or execute it – do they read for the sake of pleasing teachers or do they read with understanding?” Mokoto has published six books, How To Hear God When He Speaks, Power Of Planning, Rule Through Your Knowledge, Profit From Your Gift, Becoming The Best Speaker and Financial Wisdom. Profit From Your Gift was recently recognised at the African Authors Awards. The awards were aimed at self-publishing authors and child authors making a difference in their communities. “It's obviously a nice feeling to be rewarded for the work you do. It shows that one is moving in the right direction. All credit must be given to God, my family, my team and everyone who has been supporting me.” Mokoto still has the hunger to produce more life-changing books.“I will release two books in May. We are still working on the finer details and hope that these will serve their purpose.” The multi-talented speaker has established an academy for upcoming authors, which he describes as a stepping stone for aspiring authors. “Giving others a platform and a chance is key. Some people only need someone to believe in them so that they can take their skill to the next level.” Mokoto said he was confident with his acting career, despite managing only cameo appearances on TV soapies. “My agent has been working hard. Every industry has its own challenges. I am definitely grateful for what I have achieved so far and there is still a long way to go.”