Johannesburg - Anthony “Wandile” Hamilton is an award-winning multiplatinum singer, songwriter, producer, actor and R&B icon. The name Wandile was given to him by his South African fans. Hamilton recently released a powerful single titled Mercy, before his upcoming album, set for release later this year. The song features activist Tamika D Mallory. “This is one of those powerful songs that gave healing to black men here in America coming through the pandemic and racial injustice and things of that nature that we had encountered. It helped to heal and it gave peace,” he said. He wrote the song a year ago, wanting to take a stance and tell the story of the men going through life and facing changes. “Bringing Tamika Mallory on it, was bringing black man and woman together and making it strong again by supporting each other. “It’s letting the man know; I see you on the front-line but I am here for you. If you take a moment to pause, I’ve got your back, we won’t consider you weak, we will ride with you. “I had to make sure that people knew that, we are still riding together as black men and women.“ The hitmaker sings in a softer voice on the song because it wasn’t about showing off, but rather singing from a humble place. Hamilton has sold more than 50 million albums globally. Being able to stay creative during the pandemic has been a task for many artists. Hamilton said he never lost his passion for music. “If you lose your passion to fear and what is going on around you, it will take you away from being creative and finding those avenues. “I just decided to take to social media and make it work for me and others. They needed me and I needed them, so why not create a place where we can all meet up. I take to social media and create moments where people can still see me perform.” He has also used the time to rest, making sure he has time for himself and his family. “I have been riding my bike, going out with my kids and pedalling the stress away. “I always cook and I have been doing it a lot more. The bike riding has been a saviour.” He is currently working on his upcoming album, set for release in August. “That way it gives us time to prepare it and have it mixed and have all the people on there who the fans love. I am excited about that album. I have some great features. Then I am also doing a project with Jermaine Dupri later this year, so it will be two albums of Anthony Hamilton this year.” Hamilton’s key to a great song is being true to the music. “I think being honest and being true, people can identify with what is real. Having a good melody and a good story to tell, something that they can hold on to. Everything needs to have substance and to connect to the people, or else it is just sound, a noise.” For people who are still discovering Hamilton and his music, he wants them to know that he is a man and brother who has endured. “Music is medicine to me and I bring it as a gift to share with the world for healing, loving and building families, and I will be doing it until I am in a box.” Hamilton has added “author” to his many hats with his self-published book, Cornbread, Fish 'n Collard Greens, named after one of his songs. “One of my business associates came up with the idea to name it that, and I agreed because all that symbolises something to my life. The cornbread is the stability – family, foundation – the fish is being able to manoeuvre and go through life being agile. The collard greens are the soul – the family members and friends who can give you what you need. So that made sense.” Hamilton said that even though virtual events had taken over, he was still able to perform as if he was in front of a real audience. “I was one of the first to do a live virtual show and about 80 000 people showed up. When I perform without the audience, I always remember the last time I felt the love. You remember those moments and as soon as you start singing you know there is someone who is connecting through that lens. I am happy I am able to do that.” Mercy is available on all streaming platforms. The Star