Johannesburg - Isono is making it a habit to bring some seriously talented actors onto the show. One such actor is Siphiwe Mtshali, who plays Bones, a shady character who has a child at the local orphanage, House of Grace. “He’s a very sneaky somebody and he has been interesting to play. He comes across as somebody who can be loved and adored. But he turns on people. There is a lot of meat there that I thought I could chew on,” said Mtshali. His character name, Bones, is almost similar to his previous role on Rhythm City, Bash. “I don’t know why they keep coming to me with these criminals and their names,” he joked. Covid-19 remains a constant reminder to many actors that their careers can easily be affected by the pandemic. “It isn’t easy shooting during these times. We had a couple of scares while we were shooting and we had to take certain breaks, and also make sure we comply with regulations,” he said. “It wasn’t an ideal situation but because of the professionals the cast and crew are, there was an amazing camaraderie there and I really enjoyed it. I like to work with such people.” Mtshali left Rhythm City in September and has been working for his company since. “I run a production company with my wife and we have been trying to get that off the ground, but with Covid-19 it has been difficult to do anything. Right now, we are just building on the ideas we have. When things start opening up, we are hitting the ground running,” he said. His company, Izigi Media and Entertainment, is now working on a show concept called Vanishing Cultures. “It talks about what is happening in Africa, in terms of how we are moving away from our identity and to see how we can find ways to keep them, instead of allowing them to vanish,” he said. “We have more projects in the pipeline.” Mtshali's character on Isono is still going to shake up a number of characters on the show. He is ready to dip his acting skills more into movies. “I really enjoyed the last movie I did, uHambo, and I did another one called Vera The Ghost. I’ve been enjoying doing movies and that’s where I see myself. I am ready for more of that." Mtshali said that there were some exciting telenovelas and soapies that are still coming up, and he would like to sink his teeth into some of them. “We will just see. Right now, it is not easy getting into something but I would like to get into something really soon,” he said. The Star