Johannesburg - Human Settlements, Urban Planning and CoGTA MEC Lebogang Maile is seeking answers from the City of Johannesburg following its separation with manager Dr Ndivhoniswani Lukhwareni. This comes after the city announced that it had agreed to a mutual termination of employment with Lukhwareni, effective February 28. A statement from the city would not elaborate further on the manager’s exit, stating that the executive mayor, Geoff Makhubo, expressed his appreciation to the city manager for his service to the residents of the city and wished him well in his future endeavours. Maile has since penned a formal letter requesting written representations from Makhubo, on the terms and conditions of the “mutual separation of employment”. “As the MEC responsible for local government in the Province of Gauteng, I take patent cognisance of the said media statement, and to that end, I hereby kindly request your good-self to provide me, within three days of receipt of this letter, with a comprehensive response on what the terms and conditions of the ‘mutual termination of employment’ between the city and the former city manager entails. “It will also be appreciated if the initial contract of employment entered into between the city and the former city manager, as well as any settlement agreement entered into between the parties that provides for the ‘mutual termination of employment’, be presented to me as well. “The city’s response must, among others, clearly spell out the reasons that led to the said mutual termination,” Maile said in the letter. Maile is expected to receive a written and comprehensive response within the next coming three days. “The public deserves to know the underlying circumstances of the mutual termination of employment, including the quantum to be paid to the outgoing city manager. “Elected public representatives have a duty to account for all their actions, including on matters that involve public funds,” Maile said. He reiterated that he remained committed to the stabilisation of the City of Johannesburg, and all municipalities within the province for that matter, in order to ensure that they adequately responded to the service delivery expectations of the residents in the province. The DA’s Joburg caucus leader, Leah Knott, questioned the manager’s separation with the city. “I repeat my concerns that he is being made the scapegoat for Geoff Makhubo’s failings in the city, which includes over R400 million in corrupt Covid-19 expenditure, along with service delivery falling apart,” Knott said in a statement. Knott said she was not surprised with the move, indicating that there were rumours that Lukhwareni will not return after his “special leave”. “I am not surprised. Earlier last month, the ANC called a special council meeting to discuss a ‘human resources report’ but this was cancelled at the 11th hour by the Speaker, who claimed that a ‘settlement’ had been reached with the official in question. “Immediately after this sitting, Dr Lukhwareni suddenly went on ‘special leave’ but the rumours were that he was never going to return.” Knott said the DA in Johannesburg would oppose the settlement agreement with Lukhwareni, and any attempt by the ANC to install one of its cadres into this vital position. The Star