Johannesburg - There is a new awards show in town and it is here to encourage the development and preservation of the local music culture. The first annual South African Popular Music Awards (SAPMAs) will take place later this year. “For centuries our ancestors used music as a communication tool to express their feelings and to celebrate, this still holds true today. Music is a big and important part of our DNA, a universal language that unites, heals and builds societies,” said SAPMAs spokesperson Mathawe Matsapola. He added: “As a people we found solace and hope in music during difficult times of apartheid and that gave us a voice. That voice has evolved and continues to speak in different situations.” The awards are going as far back as 2010 to celebrate black excellence in music. “The aim of the awards ceremony is to celebrate 10 years of great and popular music. Music that still speaks to our people and will continue to speak for the voiceless, while shaping our cultural identity as a nation,” said Matsapola. Entries for the SAPMAs are officially open and will close at midnight on April 25. “Anyone is eligible to submit entries – from artists, record companies and the public at large can submit a name and song of their favourite artist. We therefore call on the public, artists and record labels to submit entries. In order to qualify, a song or album must have been released between January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2020.” Entry forms can be accessed at www.sapopularmusicawards.co.za “SAPMA does not believe in having a complicated submission process for entrants, the purpose is to make this platform easily accessible and for deserving artists and their music to be recognised and celebrated,” said Matsapola. He added that public participation was at the core of the awards – from submitting entries to voting for the five main big winners from each genre. A panel of judges will take over the process by shortlisting four finalists in each category and genre, which will be determined by the number of nominations/entries an artist has received from the public, record label and their peers in the industry. Nominees will be announced at SAPMA’s discretion. A panel of judges, which will consist of music and creative industry experts, will determine the 2021 SAPMA winners, with the exception of Special Awards and the five categories voted for by the public. “We strongly encourage the development and preservation of our music culture and appreciation of our icons while they are still alive. As a result, this year the awards will host two main big events. A Night of Legends Gala Dinner in July where legends such as Yvonne Chaka Chaka, Vusi Leeuw, Morris Roda, Mahotella Queens and Ihashe Elimhlophe will be honoured while also keeping the legacies of our late music icons and legends alive such as Jabu Khanyile, Nana Coyote, Stompie Mavi and Lebo Mathosa, who will be appreciated on that night. They might be gone but their footprint in music remains.” The final winners will be announced at the second main event – the awards ceremony – to be held a week later at Sun Arena in Menlyn, Pretoria, on July 31. The Star