Johannesburg - The Gauteng Department of Social Development’s decision to reprioritise R83 million from dignity packs to food parcels during its special adjustment budget has reportedly left thousands of underprivileged school learners stranded. The department’s reprioritised millions were directed to food parcels during its special adjustment budget for the 2020/21 financial year. This came as a result of the hard lockdown which had a devastating impact on a number of residents of Gauteng. Last year, the department assured the public that pupils would still receive their supplies. The department said in quarter one 37 387 dignity packs were delivered to grades that were available in schools and more grades would be provided with dignity packs upon their return to school. The dignity packs contained menstruation pads and products for people living with albinism. However, it has now emerged that learners across the province did not receive dignity packs from the department during the December holidays. This was revealed by Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi in a written reply to a DA question tabled in the Gauteng Provincial Legislature. Lesufi indicated that social development was responsible for the distribution of the dignity packs in the province and had reported to the Department of Education that no learner had received these packs during the holidays. He added that his department provided a list of schools targeted for the academic year for both the dignity packs and feeding scheme to the department. The DA’s Refiloe Nt’sekhe said the department’s failure to distribute dignity packs during the December holidays was unacceptable as vulnerable and underprivileged female children still experienced menstruation and had nothing else to use. “In the second quarter of the 2020/21 financial year, 179 606 Gauteng learners did not receive such dignity packs. This clearly indicates the lack of compassion by the department regarding the plight of poor learners in this province.” Nt’sekhe called on Gauteng Social Development MEC Morakane Mosupyoe to ensure that all learners across Gauteng accessed dignity packs consistently without any interruptions, and that this service is made a priority. Efforts to get comments from the department’s spokesperson Feziwe Ndwayana were unsuccessful. Ndwayana had committed to providing a response, however, this did not materialise. Matakanye Matakanya, the general secretary of the National Association of School Governing Bodies, recently voiced his concerns with the department’s decision. “We have so many learners at our schools who rely on these supplies and we cannot tolerate such actions. The department should account, times are tough but we need to make sure that such things are prioritised.” The Star