Johannesburg - Tshiamo Mobe entered the Miss Gauteng Exclusive because she stands for its values: empowering women and uplifting communities. The initiative is an annual event that takes place in March, fittingly during the month of International Women’s Day. “Identifying myself as feminist and an intellect, this was the perfect initiative for me to restart my journey. Furthermore, I love that Miss Gauteng Exclusive’s programme allows us to grow in leadership as we conduct our own social campaigns.” The 22-year-old is a bookworm who loves to dance and take on her challenges head-on. She loves to entertain and educate with the God-given talents she has. The Atteridgeville-born woman wants to be a vessel to pass goodness in all she does. “My name means “goodness” and that is what my mother wished for me: to always be a servant of goodness. On this journey so far with Miss Gauteng Exclusive, I have focused a lot on empowerment and helping young girls to grow into innovative thinkers and leaders of tomorrow.” Her favourite inspirational quote is from Miss Universe, Zozibini Tunzi: “You are extremely powerful. It is your responsibility to take over from where the women of 1956 left off.” Miss Gauteng Exclusive is a platform that prides itself with the fact that it is not “another beauty pageant”. The six-month programme empowers women through entrepreneurial and ambassador workshops, social campaigns and leadership development. This women empowerment initiative is run by Kagiso Selele and Annwen Jordan. For this year, the programme has had to run longer than usual due to the pandemic. The top 25 finalists have been doing their part for their communities. Mobe is proud of her home town and the people she grew up around. “Atteridgeville is known as Phelindaba to the locals. It signifies that a fight was ended. People in this community inspire me to be more ... I would say we have good leaders around us who step up to the plate, should the government decide not to give us service delivery. “The community members will come together and contribute toward the cause or plan a strike of action. I think my environment created Tshiamo – I am respectful, someone who takes initiative as opposed to just accepting my circumstances and I believe in peace,” said Mobe. She added that the biggest issue facing her community was crime. “This is mainly caused by the high levels of unemployment, service delivery, substance abuse and the fact that some community members intentionally make children receive grants as a result of their circumstance.” She had taken a year off from pageantry to focus on her career. When the pandemic hit the country, it robbed her of many things related to her career. “Entering this pageant was a way to encourage, grow and challenge myself and to come back into pageantry with a new found fire. “It also served as a way to make sure that when times were hard, I went harder,” said Mobe. She believes the biggest issues women her age are facing include unemployment, social media pressures and GBV. “Unemployment leads to seeking ’blessers’, GBV and social media pressure leads to increased anxiety, damaged self-image and mental health issues. Women my age do not realise that they have the power to change their reality.” Mobe is not limiting herself when it comes to reaching out and helping others. She is also interested in the environment and has approached WWF South Africa to see how she can be of assistance in preserving the planet for future generations. For her, winning the title of Miss Gauteng Exclusive 2021 will elevate the work she is already doing with her initiative, Bokamoso. “I would use my platform to do what I have been doing on a larger scale. I will continue helping orphanages, families in need and collecting sanitary pads for girls who cannot afford to buy their own. “Second, to mentor young women and children to believe in the beauty of the mind by constantly educating themselves and ensure that they grow to be people who contribute to society and chase their dreams relentlessly. I would hope to be an ambassador that serves to the needs of the youth and be a worthy role model,” she said. This year’s Royal Crowning Event for the pageant will take place later this month. The Star