Johannesburg – Local non-profit organisation Healthy Living Alliance (HEALA) has called on the government to consider the harmful effects of the excessive consumption of unhealthy foods and the most effective policy-related solutions to the problem. The organisation, along with the Centre for Communication Impact (CCI), recently called on Finance Minister Tito Mboweni to raise the Health Promotion Levy (HPL) percentage. They said an HPL of 20% in the long term could reduce sugar consumption and save lives from non-communicable diseases as well as Covid-19, as many scientists didn’t expect the pandemic to end any time soon. The NGO argued that diseases linked to obesity are rapidly increasing and impacting lower-income households and rural communities, and are already placing a huge burden on the government and South African society. The organisation said it was estimated that 4.5 million South Africans will have type 2 diabetes by 2030 and that the burden of type 2 diabetes is projected to cost the country’s public health-care system more than R35.1 billion by 2030. “At least 27% of children under five years old experience stunting, impaired growth and development, which contributes to diet-related non-communicable diseases.” The organisation outlined that excessive consumption of sugary beverages has been linked to obesity, and diseases such as diabetes and hypertension are the leading causes of early mortality in the country. It said that over the years consumers have increasingly purchased ultra-processed foods and beverages, a trend in both urban and rural areas, therefore sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB) taxes are an effective public health strategy to reduce the burden of health conditions linked to the over-consumption of sugar. “Up to 76% of South Africans support the government's efforts to cut down on excessive sugar consumption now more than ever, and it’s time to take bold steps to respond to Covid-19 and diet-related non-communicable diseases.” The country commemorated World Obesity Day on March 4. Dr Christine Taljaard-Krugell, president of the Association for Dietetics South Africa (ADSA), said simplifying obesity to one cause could prevent effective treatment. “It ignores the various root causes such as biology, food, genetic risk, health-care access, life events, marketing and sleep. Hence, when tackling obesity as a chronic disease, an evidence-based approach should be followed,” she said. Taljaard-Krugell emphasised that holistic patient care was critical in the fight against obesity. “While cutting back on calories and increasing exercise is a relevant start and lays a foundation for healthy living at a healthy weight, it’s not the be-all and end-all when you’re aiming for sustainable change. “This is a misconception that needs to shift.” Lawrence Mbalati, programme manager at the organisation, said policymakers have the opportunity to increase the HPL to 20% to raise additional revenue in the short term. “If the National Treasury doubled the HPL now, it could bring an extra R2bn in government coffers to help fund the fight against Covid-19 in the short term and towards social and economic programmes to advance the lives of ordinary citizens,” he said. The Star