By Neo Motlhala Johannesburg - Mahadi Buthelezi has an impressive resumé by any standards. Buthelezi, 49, originally from Soweto but now living in Bedfordview – is the group chief executive for RB Property Group and Fund and chief executive of the Catholic Business Forum. She is also a member of the UN Women SA and the Department of Women, Youth and People with Disabilities’ Generation Equality and the Faith Based Organisation’s National Task Team but finds the time, together with her businessman husband Robert, to raise four children. Buthelezi is also a reigning Mrs Gauteng princess. The Mrs Gauteng pageant has been hosted by RoleModels Foundation since 2009 and is a platform for married/divorced or widowed women aged between 24 and 58. The aim is for women to step up and speak out for those who cannot speak for themselves and about making a difference in the lives of those in need; this is a life-changing, philanthropic pageant, not only a beauty or modelling competition. Buthelezi was crowned a Mrs Gauteng 2021 second princess at the grand finale last November. It was because of her desire to give back that she entered the pageant. “However, as a humanitarian, I believe my life has value and is worth being cared for, but this is also true for anyone else. My faith and sense of community impel me to find spaces where I can uphold and value each person and care for them.” The charity beneficiary of the Mrs Gauteng pageant is the RoleModels Foundation. Its mission is to intervene in impoverished communities by creating self-sustainability through education and skills development. “This mission resonated with my desire to give back, empower and inspire others, especially women and girls. That is one of the reasons I entered the competition. The other is to shatter the glass ceiling about age and weight – to show that anything is possible,” she says. The Mrs Gauteng princess is working on an alumnus-focused project for her old school, Immaculata Secondary in Diepkloof, Soweto. “My contribution is being done in consultation with the school, about where there is the most need and what will have highest impact,” she says. We asked her: Why is your faith so important? From as long as I can remember I grew up with prayer; when things were good and when things were difficult. My faith became stronger as I was growing up because I could discern that God answers our prayers. How have you handled the Covid19 pandemic lockdown? Primarily it affected me psychologically. It was extremely overwhelming especially as a mother. Thinking about my family and thinking about their needs. Being locked and confined to one space was also difficult. The deaths of family and friends brought additional burden to the psychological state. We ultimately had to adjust and try best to live in this new situation. What has this time taught you? It has taught me to be more introspective than I have ever been. I am now more in touch with myself. I have grown in that I now pray before making decisions and this has brought a richer spiritual wisdom. What do you love about South Africa? The people, the diversity, the weather, the beauty of our country’s landscapes; from mountains, to rivers and its natural treasures. I hope to travel in South Africa more because we have so much to be grateful for. What would like to change about South Africa? Corruption, inequality, economic justice and rights for women and youth, gender-based violence in particular, and the violence and murders in general. We also need a difference in entrepreneurship development. Who are your role models? My father Simon (Sy) Khumalo is my hero and the late Marina Maponya. I was lucky enough to virtually grow up in her household. Social media tags: Facebook: mahadi.buthelezi and @ mrs_gauteng2021_2ndprincess Instagram: @mrs_ gauteng2021_2ndprincess Linked In: mahadibuthelezi