Johannesburg - While last year’s Buy Local Summit had to be cancelled, this year’s three-day event has gone virtual. The expo is part of Proudly South African, the country’s official buy local advocacy campaign. The focus of the conference is on the business of localisation as a driver of economic growth. Sessions are free to join for people in the country and across the globe. The virtual expo features more than 100 companies, showcasing their products and services in a short video with an online meeting hub where buyers and sellers can connect. “After the disappointment of having to cancel the 2020 edition of our Buy Local Summit, we are excited about the new format we have created in order for our 2021 event to go ahead,” said Proudly South African chief executive Eustace Mashimbye. “The hybrid nature of the event allows for real interactions between panellists and presenters which will translate into viewable and entertaining content for delegates watching from their laptops and other devices. “We are especially gratified that the president will live stream his keynote address. “We are looking forward to a great virtual attendance and urge anyone with an interest in contributing to the recovery of our economy to tune in to find out how,” said Mashimbye. Monday was the first day of the summit, hosting speakers including Lindokuhle Mkhumane, acting director-general, Department of Small Business Development; Barbara Copelovici, entrepreneurship director at SA Breweries; and Liz Letsoalo of Masodi Organics to discuss the role of SMMEs in the economic recovery of the country. They also explained how the public and private sectors can assist in ensuring the sector thrives and grows. They were joined by Mashimbye. The programme of the day also included talks from Brand Leadership Group founder, Thebe Ikalafeng on content marketing being the key to establishing a brand and identity. He also spoke on how to transform good products into great brands. For the activation session, the focus was on local ingredients. With the poultry sector in the country under threat from imported products, various chefs highlighted local chickens and poultry products in a “mystery box” cook off. Chefs David Molopyane, Thero Ramatebele, Yolanda Dlamini and Kabelo Kalebe showcased their skills for all to see. All the lifestyle activations celebrating South African food, music and clothing will ease delegates into their evening. The Business Solutions Hub is a one-stop shop for any business owner seeking information or resolution to queries from a number of organisations and institutions that regulate, legislate, fund and assist businesses with non-financial programmes. Over the next two days speakers including Professor Bonang Mohale, Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng, Maps Maponyane, Gareth Cliff, Theo Baloyi, Matthew Mole and Boskasie will give talks. President Cyril Ramaphosa was expected to give a keynote address on Tuesday. Proudly SA will mark its 20th anniversary in a panel with two former chairpersons – Tim Modise and advocate Dali Mpofu – as well as journalists Peter Bruce and Leanne Manas. Happy Ngidi, chief marketing officer of Proudly South African would host a discussion on local brands built by popular local personalities. The Star