Johannesburg - Teachers at Roosevelt High School are at a crossroads as to whether they should listen to the school’s leadership or follow Department of Basic Education (DBE) instructions on when to report for duty. This comes after it emerged that teachers at the school were allegedly instructed to return for duty last week, despite the department’s announcement that teachers should return on February 1. A teacher who spoke on condition of anonymity said the school operated like a private school and that they were working under fear. “We are subjected to emotional torture almost every day of school. Sadly many teachers are gripped with fear and have resorted to just sheepishly follow in whatever the school management says, but teachers are not happy.” The teacher said the school was run like a private business and management had no regard for rules and regulations prescribed by the Department of Education. Another teacher said the school was unlawful and that they were put under unnecessary pressure. “The school management went as far as mocking those who didn’t go to work ... saying they made a decision to not go to work but were not afraid to take their salaries. “We are led by people who are bullies to say the least and they think that they hold more authority than the department itself.” Education spokesperson Steve Mabona said teachers were called to a staff meeting last week to discuss the school’s revised plans after the reopening was delayed. “The principal explained that teachers are not supposed to be at the school as per the instruction by the Department of Education.” Mabona said the meeting was also used to update teachers on the building projects that took place during school holiday. “Teachers were requested to arrange the issuing of textbooks and workbooks. The parents were advised to collect the study material in a drivethrough system, never leaving their vehicles.” “Teachers are not forced to attend the planning meeting. The rotation plans to be followed when schools reopened was presented at this meeting on January 22, so that staff can plan accordingly.” Teachers have also alleged that the school was operating with unqualified teachers, who were not registered with the SA Council for Educators (SACE). The council’s spokesperson, Thembinkosi Ndhlovu, confirmed that the body was investigating the allegations. “The matter is still under investigation, however, If it is indeed true that the teachers have indeed been employed and are teaching without qualifications and without being registered with SACE, this will be in contravention of the SACE Act and departmental directives.” Ndhlovu added that where evidence was found of educators or principal breaching the code and employing unregistered and or unqualified educators, the council would take disciplinary measures against such teachers or the principal. Meanwhile, Mabona explained that the school disputed allegations of unqualified teachers. “This investigation can only be conducted once the school is open, and the district will visit the school accordingly.” The Star