Since the beginning of last year, Covid-19 has decimated the global economy and killed almost 2 million people globally. The virus has seen some people lose their loved ones, their jobs, homes and all they held dear. While the virus has wreaked havoc, there are those among us who like to point fingers, making absurd assertions about who should be held accountable for the emergence of the virus and its spread across the world. Whether the virus originated from China, South Africa, the US or UK, it does not matter. No one country should have to take the blame about where it came from. What needs to happen is those whom we have entrusted to deal with the virus need to be held accountable. The common people everywhere need to ensure that their respective governments deal with the virus effectively instead of pointing fingers at other countries. The Chinese have led by example in dealing with the crisis. How can we forget the time when they built a hospital in Wuhan in two weeks? While things are gloomy back home, our government is also trying to deal with the continuous increase in Covid-19 infections and deaths. In the 11 days from January 1 to 11, there were about 190 000 new infections and more than 4 600 deaths. Warnings have been repeatedly issued, with people being urged to wear masks, sanitise, wash their hands and avoid large crowds at churches and funerals. This plea has fallen on deaf ears as videos of gatherings are posted on social media of people flouting protocols. In his address to the nation on Monday, President Cyril Ramaphosa warned that the pandemic is at its most deadly. The fact that the country has recorded more than 1.2 million cases is scary enough for people to realise that the virus is here to stay until we have all been vaccinated. The reality is that the more we point accusing fingers at other countries, while our own government is mired in coronavirus-related corruption such as the Dikogate scandal, the more funerals we are going to have to arrange. And the chance to hold those in power accountable for their actions will slip away. The Star