Johannesburg - After 29 years of providing the latest music, games, movies and technology, the Clicks Group announced the closure of popular entertainment brand Musica with effect from May 31. The Clicks Group announced on Thursday that the group’s shareholders were advised that the board of directors took a decision to close the group’s heritage entertainment brand Musica. The Clicks Group includes retail health and beauty store Clicks and the franchise brands such as The Body Shop, GNC and Claire’s. “Acquired by Clicks Group in 1992, Musica has been the country's leading music and entertainment retail brand for several decades,” Clicks said. In more recent years, the entertainment brand had shifted away from only selling traditional physical products such as CDs and DVDs to more general electronics and entertainment, such as tablets and smartphone accessories. Despite the shift, Clicks said Musica had been operating in a declining market for several years as a result of the global structural shift to the digital consumption of music, movies and games from the traditional format. “The inevitable demise of the brand has been accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic which resulted in the rapid decline in foot traffic in destination malls where Musica stores are typically located,” Click said. The group added that Musica had closed about 19 stores since the start of the 2021 financial year and was currently trading from 59 outlets. Clicks said that the remaining stores would be shut over the next four months when the majority of Musica’s leases terminate. “In the stores which have been closed since September 2020, the Musica staff have been absorbed into the group´s expanding health and beauty store network. Management is committed to accommodating the remaining staff within the group where this is operationally feasible,” Clicks said. The group said that further detail son the financial and operational impact of Musica´s closure would be communicated to shareholders with their interim results in April. Musica also announced on social media that they would be hosting a closing down sale, while stocks last until March 3. Group chief executive Vikesh Ramsunder said the business continued to show resilience in the face of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic across the country late last year and into the new calendar year. “Clicks reported good growth in front shop health sales as customers focused on preventative health care to boost their resistance levels with immunity-building vitamins and supplements,” Ramsunder said. He added that online sales in Clicks increased by 173% over the previous year, as shoppers chose the convenience of home delivery to reduce the risk of contracting Covid-19. “Trading patterns continued to shift, particularly in December and January, as the Covid-19 related restriction … further impacted consumer shopping behaviour,” Ramsunder said. He said the accessibility of the their store network, with over 70% of outlets in convenience and neighbourhood shopping centres, sustained the group’s performance during this time where shopping malls have experienced a significant slowdown. The Star