Johannesburg - Following  the public’s outrage over Covid-19 vaccines, President Cyril Ramaphosa has detailed the government’s stance on Western and African vaccinations. This comes after Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize announced the rolling out of Covid-19 vaccinations which has since received a backlash from all angles, with some criticising the origins of the vaccine and others questioned the timing. The vaccine has been associated with all sorts of stigma, with members of the public casting doubt over its ability to cure the disease. In an interview with The Star, Ramaphosa said the government has relied on scientists and experts. “The good thing about medication and all that… is that we rely on our scientists. I am no scientist, therefore we take advice and guidance from those who are well versed and trained.” East African nation Madagascar recently touted its Artemisia (uMhlonyane) herbal tonic as a cure for Covid19. This triggered widespread debate in the country, with some arguing that the herb can cure any flu. “The issue of uMhlonyane was raised by the president of Madagascar and the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, who said they should bring it forward so that it can be examined. That process I think is under way or it’s about to begin.” Ramaphosa reiterated that they always relied on scientific proven medication and health experts to work on developing a vaccine. “For the position that I hold it’s best to do so… we act on behalf of the people of South Africa. Let’s subject uMhlonyane to scientific evidence.” They had to accept that some people harboured doubts on vaccines and challenged medical experts to work on creating their own vaccine, he said. “For us as a government we need to go with evidence-based information. I said to our own scientists we need to move to having our own vaccine development and we no longer need to rely on inventions that come from outside.” He said they should be reliant on African medicine because they always produced cures that healed ailments. DA leader John Steenhuisen has been vocal on the country’s vaccination programme. He said a successful initiative required people’s buy-in and Ramaphosa needed to start giving the country reasons to trust his government. “The president should start answering people’s legitimate questions openly and honestly. If that means admitting government dropped the ball massively, so be it. At least then South Africa can move forward… trusting people are not being kept in the dark and lied to…” The DA was on Monday expected to announce the launch of its legal action on the government’s vaccine procurement and roll-out strategy. The Star