Our president has entrusted us with a mission. Most of us would agree that we have no choice but to succeed in it. The mission is to count ourselves among 42 million vaccinated South Africans before the end of 2021. Should we reject this mission, the nation’s health, both physical and economic, will continue to decline. Data from fintech company CompariSure recently revealed that 52% of South Africans wouldn’t take the vaccine even if it was handed to them on a silver platter. If we ever want to attain the fabled “population immunity” our president called for in our last family meeting, then 52% of South Africans are set to dash those dreams against the rocks in a storm of ignorance. Having worked in the healthcare industry, I have gained immense respect for it and the millions of masterful minds that make it move. In my interactions with these people of passion and progress, I have learnt to trust their experience and put my faith in the fact that the vast majority of them have dedicated their lives to advancing healthcare. So, for all those who may still be in doubt, let’s put some perspective on this. More than 32.4 million vaccine doses have been administered in 45 countries. The world needs Covid-19 vaccines. Africa needs these vaccines. Before we start questioning the validity of the vaccines, remember that these vaccinations are perhaps one of the greatest medical achievements in the last century. It is a feat that has involved an entire world of scientists, industries and governments working towards a singular goal. This kind of collaboration has never been seen before. These vaccines have gone through all the stages of development including rigorous human trials. The vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech went through three phases of clinical trials. The third phase involved more than 43 000 volunteers to test the vaccine proving it to be 95% effective in preventing the development of Covid-19. Know that our own South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) will be ensuring these vaccines are in the best interest of all South Africans. As President Ramaphosa said in a recent interview: “I am no scientist, therefore we take advice and guidance from those who are well versed and trained.” Yes, the roll-out plan may be ambitious and a logistical challenge, but it will be dead in the water if South Africans cannot be convinced to trust it. What can we do about this? Let’s start with some words of wisdom from a leader that is universally respected. It was Nelson Mandela who said: “Education is the most powerful weapon which can be used to change the world.” So many problems in our society emerge from a lack of education. It is now up to every man, woman, private and public organisations to help spread the message. Before we can vaccinate the body, we need to vaccinate the mind and it starts with education. We need to establish a comprehensive programme for education of the general public about how vaccines work. A global effort has led to the successful development of multiple Covid-19 vaccines. A concerted effort from all of us will therefore remain key in fulfilling the optimum roll-out of this vaccination drive. The Star