Johannesburg - The Covid-19 crisis has spurred South Africa to build a formidable capacity to develop and manufacture vaccines, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Innovation Blade Nzimande said. He addressed the media on Monday about the role of the country’s public scientific bodies in the fight against the novel coronavirus and the impact of Covid-19 in tertiary institutions. He said the country’s ability to develop and manufacture vaccines locally has been thrust into the spotlight. Nzimande vowed that his department was active in ensuring South Africa was able to produce vaccines, more so because of the threat of future pandemics. “We want to use this opportunity of acquisition of vaccines to also put in place measures so that we can build our own local capacity for at least the production of vaccines,” Nzimande told journalists. “This is very important because our scientists are telling us that in fact we have entered the age of pandemics (and) that it’s very possible that even before the next 10 years we may be faced with another virus.” Failure in this work was not an option. “If we are not building our own capacity, we will be in trouble,” said Nzimande. “As the Department of Science and Innovation, we’re determined to use this crisis as an opportunity to strengthen our local capacity for production.” Nzimande said the government owned a 47.5% stake in Biovac, a biopharmaceutical company. Biovac was a public-private partnership. Created in 2003, the company was meant to reignite manufacturing of human vaccines in the country. Until last year, South Africa had not produced any human vaccine for almost 30 years. Nzimande reminded the media that last year he launched Hexaxim, a vaccine that Biovac manufactured in partnership with French pharmaceutical company Sanofi Pasteur. Said Nzimande: “Hexaxim is the first World Health Organization Expanded Programme on Immunisation vaccine to be manufactured in South Africa, and is a strong indication of the technical abilities of South African scientists.” Hexaxim, a liquid vaccine, prevents childhood diseases diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough, hepatitis B, Haemophilus influenzae type B, and poliomyelitis. “(Biovac) has over the years developed the capability to manufacture vaccines,” said Nzimande. Local institutions were involved in two studies on Covid-19 vaccines. The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research worked with an international group that sought to produce a vaccine using tobacco plants. In a second study, Wits University looked into the immunogenicity and efficacy of a Covid-19 vaccine in South African adults living without HIV. Higher education institutions, most of which were completing their 2020 academic year, have not been spared from Covid-19. Nzimande revealed that up to November 13, 2020, universities had recorded 3 088 cases, 1 499 of which were staff and 1 588 were students. He said 48 staff members and 10 students died. The technical vocational education and training (TVET) colleges had 146 staff member infections and 23 deaths. The Star