As young black South Africans, a generation which for some has been termed the “angry online generation”, we can no longer stomach the conspicuous, vicious attacks on members of our society who seek to fight for the disenfranchised. For many years, we’ve witnessed the silencing of individuals who dared challenge the status quo and go deeper than what normally meets the eye. As a generation which is beginning to ask critical questions and occupying strategic positions across our deeply divided so-called nation, we cannot remain quiet when we see a grave injustice taking place while we hide behind our Twitter accounts. For some time, I’ve witnessed the carefully structured attacks on the public protector, advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane. It’s time to speak up about this and take charge. We should remember how the public protector rose to office. During parliamentary interviews for the position, a strong black woman with vast experience caught the eyes of many South Africans. Before she could find her feet in the office, the far right DA were calling her demeaning names and portraying her as a spy. The DA has, until to this day, as we face a brutal pandemic, failed to provide any evidence of their allegation. It was clear from day one that our public protector would face many challenges from certain rogue groupings. History has proved over and over again that the patriarchal world in which we live is intimidated by the thought of a strong, independent black woman. The toxic masculine feeling that powerful man portray towards black woman leaders has contributed to the onslaught of Mkhwebane. The attacks and pure power-play bullying by the establishment have shown many of us that the system always targets those who refuse to be controlled like the strings of a guitar, echoing what the master’s ears find soothing. The public protector’s only crime was refusing to toe the line. Her sin, as a black woman, is merely doing the job entrusted to her, without fear or favour. Her biggest mistake was investigating the so-called “untouchables”. By Modibe Modiba,  Co-founder and co-host of The Insight Factor. The Star