Johannesburg - The greatest dad in the world. That is how Sam Phillips’ daughter, Mpumi, will remember him. The veteran actor died on Friday night. He was 72. South Africans have continued to send tributes and share photos they took with the humble director and composer. Phillips’s talent agency, Gaenor Artiste Management released a statement celebrating his life. “A revered actor, director, producer, writer and music composer; the list is long of accreditations. More than that he was a father, grandfather and loving friend to all who had the privilege of knowing him.” Phillips started his acting career while in high school and eventually moved from Cape Town to Joburg to pursue it further. Theatre played a big role in his career when he became part of the Non-racial Peoples Space Theatre within which he played in the first multi-racial production of Lysistrata. “Sam was one of the first faces to appear on SABC TV 2 in 1980. Featuring in numerous programmes including religious ones such as Monna wa Cyrene and Ibali lika Yona. “A great number of skills shaped Sam into the award-winning actor and writer he was, but without a doubt the numerous languages he spoke were top of the list. Enabling him to appear in a great many drama TV series, films, telenovelas and even comedies. There was not a genre that escaped him. From Johannesburg to Los Angeles, acting, teaching writing and appearing on stage, he loved what he did, which was always evident when watching him perform. Even appearing as a support in Ace Ventura: When nature calls in 1995.” Phillips was nominated for an Oscar as part of the cast of the short film Senzeni na? which was nominated for Best Short Story by the American Film Institution (AFI) in 1990. He later wrote a book The business of business of showbusiness  which became an actor’s handbook. Phillips’s acting credits include Soul City, Phamokate, Umzi Nento zawo, Tholwana tsa Sethepu and Backstage. He also featured in international plays like Athol Fugard’s Master Herold and the Boys in the US and Selaelo Maredi's Absolom's Song with the Los Angeles Theatre. His doctoral status was bestowed on him when he received a doctorate degree in philosophy from the University of Zululand. “We will remember him fondly for his smile and miss his visits to the office over a cup of tea and a story of the good old times. For us he will take place on our mantle as one of the greatest actors and will always be part of The Gaenor Artist Management team. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to his children Choppa, Mpho, Mpumi, Late Nomzamo, Mthunzi and Ntsoaki and family,” said the team at Gaenor which includes Lynne Karen Higgins, Kelly Wolmarans and Gaenor Becker. The agency also lost actress Lindiwe Ndlovu and actor Afzal Khan last week. Platforms such as Actor Spaces, OHA Films Workshop, Joburg Theatre and Brand SA also sent their condolences. Mpumi tweeted that her father had recently smiled for the first time after being in hospital for two weeks using the hashtag #Covid19SA. Producer Lebo M remembered Phillips for the many memories they made while in exile. “Eish, Bra Sam … RIP and thank you for the million beautiful moments we shared over the years, especially our time as this huge South African tight family in exile, in Los Angeles. RIP Grootman. Mpumi, let the tears fall Mtanam, they cleanse the pain.” Fellow actors including Connie and Shona Ferguson expressed their sadness at the news of Phillips’s death. “My heart is sore. We have lost another great human being. Papa Sam, I am honoured to have worked with you on multiple productions and it warms my heart that you played my father twice on different projects and even my wife’s father on another. How blessed we are to have known you and been in your presence. Death be not proud. Rest in power Papa Sam Phillips, said Shona Ferguson who recently acted alongside Phillips in his production Kings of Joburg that is currently streaming on Netflix. Connie Ferguson posted a picture of Phillips saying the country was losing many legends. He played her father on telenovela The Queen. “Papa Sam! This is too much! What does one even say now! Thank you papa Sam for who you were to us! What you will continue to represent! Thank you for your talent, your humility, your sense of humour, your professionalism and for just being a father to all of us. This is a sad, sad loss. Rest in Power Papa You continue to live on through your work and for that we are eternally grateful. Our deepest condolences to the family. You are in our prayers.” Actor and SA Guild of Actors chairperson Jack Devnarain also sent his condolences. Farewell to our acting legends. Lindiwe Ndlovu and Sam Phillips. This is devastating news and deeply upsetting for all who knew them. How many more veterans do we lose before Govt (government) agrees their families have a right to be paid fair royalties from their work? #RememberOurLegends Details for the memorial and funeral arrangements will be shared in the week. The Star