Johannesburg – A survey shows 53% of adults think schools should not reopen until the current Covid-19 situation improves. Schools are due to reopen on January 27 while cases of Covid-19 continue to rise. Professor Carin Runciman, UJ Associate Professor at the Centre for Social Change, said findings from Round 3 of the UJ/HSRC Covid-19 democracy survey, undertaken by the Centre for Social Change, UJ in partnership with the Development, Capable and Ethical State of the Human Sciences Research Council, demonstrated; Fifty-three percent of adults think schools should remain closed until the situation improves. Nineteen percent of adults believe schools should reopen for Grade 7 and Grade 12 learners only. Nineteen percent of adults think schools should reopen for all grades. Nine percent of adults “don’t know”. These findings come from the latest round of the UJ/HSRC Covid-19 democracy survey, which was conducted between December 30, 2020, and January 6. The online survey was completed by 10 618 participants. Findings have been weighted to match Statistics SA data on race, education and age, and could be regarded as broadly representative of the population at large, said Runciman. The survey was conducted online using social media adverts to direct potential participants to the survey and through the popular #datafree Moya Messenger app, which has 2 million active users. Participants are able to respond to the survey #datafree on the app as well as through the following #datafree link, which has been enabled #datafree by biNu, the parent company of Moya. Attitudes towards the opening of schools were consistent by gender. 52% of men and 53% of women believe schools should not reopen until the situation improves again. Differences on whether schools should reopen differed by income, race and type of accommodation, added the professor. Those on lower incomes were more likely to oppose the reopening of schools than those on higher incomes. Fifty-three percent of those earning less that R1 000 a month were against schools reopening, compared to 41% of those who earned over R20 000 a month, a difference of 12 percentage points. Attitudes to the reopening of schools also differed by race. Indian adults were the most strongly opposed to schools reopening, with 77% saying schools should not reopen until the situation improves. Coloured and black African adults were also opposed. 63% of coloured adults and 52% of black Africans believed schools should not reopen. In contrast, 37% of white adults were opposed to the reopening of schools, said Runciman. The type of accommodation is also associated with people’s views on the reopening of schools. Those living in backyard shacks or rooms in townships were most strongly opposed to the reopening of schools, 56%, compared to only 44% of those who live in a suburban house. The public’s low level of support for children returning to school should be read alongside a key finding from Round 1 of the UJ/HSRC survey, which lasted from April 13 to May 11, 2020, that showed 79% of adults were “very concerned” that the “coronavirus situation would have a negative impact on (their) child’s education”. Parents from poorer backgrounds were especially worried, so concern about reopening of schools was not linked to interest in one’s children’s education. 87% of adults with monthly incomes of less than R20 000 were “very concerned”, and 52% of those earning more than R20 000 gave the same response. The new figures, and their breakdown by class, reflect inequalities in our society. Wealthier parents in suburbs could reasonably have greater confidence in the ability of their schools to provide a safe environment, compared to poorer parents in townships and informal settlements. The Star