The recent vitriolic attack by TV host JJ Tabane on Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu cannot be left unchallenged. After Sisulu declined his invitation to appear on his show, Tabane went on a monologue on Sunday, slandering the character of Sisulu, calling her arrogant and untouchable, infringing on her right to be heard, shredding her dignity and causing untold damage to her persona, injuring her political standing and damaging her relationship with the South African public. What I find highly troubling are blatant lies being peddled by Tabane to his viewers and on social media platforms where he even had the audacity to accuse Sisulu of lacking accountability for turning down his invitation. Let me first put matters in proper perspective and context. Following an unfortunate incident in Cape Town a few weeks ago, where Sisulu was accosted by a rude “activist” who secretly recorded the minister when she visited Taiwan informal settlement to engage with residents whose homes were destroyed by fire, her office issued a press statement detailing her side of the story. I also responded to many calls from print and electronic media on the same matter. The reactions to Sisulu’s statement were varied. Some would have wished that she should have been “a bigger person“and tendered an unfettered apology. Some asserted that public representative can’t lose their cool in public. The year of local government elections will burst forth an assortment of fake activists who will seek to raise their stature with a view to increasing their chances. At the same time, there is nothing wrong in demanding accountability, but there is everything wrong in a staged act of wilful disrespect and cheap self-seeking antics. Then entered JJ Tabane who issued an “alternative press statement“on some WhatsApp groups in which he ridiculed and mocked the minister who he called “Princess” Sisulu. Tabane ‘s “statement” meant that he had taken a certain stance or posture on the matter. However, regardless of the merits of his argument, he had demonstrated beyond any reasonable doubt his subjectivity on the issue. A few days after issuing his “alternative press statement” Tabane called me asking for the minister to appear on his show. I told him in no uncertain terms that he had already made his opinion about the minister known and that there was no way he was going to treat her objectively and fairly. I even stated to Tabane that Sisulu was willing to appear on his TV station any time on condition that she would be interviewed by a host who would conduct themselves professionally and one who would adhere to objectivity and fairness, basic tenets of journalism that Tabane has a chronic shortage of. Sadly, Tabane conveniently failed to share the minister’s full reasons for her refusal of his invitation with his viewers – obviously for self-serving motives. Anyway, this did not come as a surprise since this failed politician has throughout his career never covered himself with glory. A litany of scandals and unethical conduct have been the hallmark of his career. It is the same Tabane who professed to be acting in the public interest when he professed to be a genuine friend of South Africans and tweeted about being shocked at the testimony of government spokesperson Phumla Williams at the Zondo commission about the alleged behaviour of former minister of communications Faith Muthambi. Tabane went on his radio show to address what was purely his private matter. This self-nominated paragon of accountability was caught with his pants down as he was exposed to have pulled a Hollywood stunt as he was painfully reminded by spin doctor Chris Vick that he had done work for the very same minister whose behaviour he pretended to be disgusted at.It is this misconduct that led to Tabane’s dismissal from Power FM. This is a scandal he never addressed, yet he now wants everyone to believe he respects accountability. Last year, this self-styled paragon of respect for the people was pulled off his show at Newzroom Africa for making insulting and disparaging comments about the people of Limpopo, branding them as witches. He was compelled to apologise and did so to save his income and not as a genuine sign of respect and remorse. This is a classical case that competently proves that Tabane’s motives are not about telling the truth. His intention is all about slander, prejudice and manipulation of the broadcasting platform to spread hatred, stereotypes and revenge against those who refuse to dance to his tune. It is outrageous that Tabane wants to make a living through gross misrepresentation of characters, distortion and lies. His conduct is the antithesis of the kind of media freedom espoused by our Constitution. Tabane must cool down his anger and temper and focus on being a true professional and ethical journalist. Once he has accomplished these attributes, the minister will gladly avail herself to engage him. He has a role to play in this country save to exile his rage, and adhere to journalistic tenets. The author,  Steven Motale, is the spokesperson for the minister of Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation Lindiwe Sisulu. The Star