Johannesburg - Music is a language everyone can understand. Whether it is to soothe the soul or mend a broken heart, there is a song for every feeling. The Covid-19 pandemic has caused people to experience mental, physical and emotional turmoil and music has managed to help people cope. Ami Faku’s latest release featuring award-winning rapper, Emtee, is apt for the times. Titled Lala Ngoxolo, meaning rest in peace, Eastern Cape’s voice of modern Afro-soul has created the perfect soundtrack for the mood of the country, as she did with her Platinum-selling single, Imali, taken off her gold-selling debut album of the same name. The song uses words to remember those who have died. “Sobonana kweli linye ilizwe / we’ll see each other in a different world” and “Akusafani la ma ungekho / it’s not the same here without you” are some of the lyrics. Lala Ngoxolo aims to help the country find joy, peace and healing, while paying homage to those who lost their lives. From tragic accidents, to sicknesses, to Covid-19 deaths, the country suffered great loss last year and Ami Faku hopes her latest release will aid in the journey of healing as the nation bids farewell to those who have died. On a lighter note, Soweto band Urban Village have released Udondolo. For the last six months, the band has been using the pandemic as a learning curve to start using their skills. “We weren’t paying attention to those skills before that. We had to learn how to really introspect and work on our art from within. When time comes again to meet and rehearse, we find ourselves in better positions,” said guitarist Lerato Lichaba. The band’s music references a blend of cultures, music and rites which were assimilated into the population of Soweto, when black South Africans from multiple provinces were brought into to the area during the days of strict segregation under apartheid. They came to dig the belly of “the city of gold” on behalf of big companies and formed the first urban proletariat in Africa. Everyone took pieces of their village to this new town, and from this friction, an original culture was born, evolving Soweto into a sprawling urban village. While others are still digging for precious metal, Urban Village are mining these mixed legacies of which they are heirs. The album Izivunguvungu is a homage to the Isicathamiya Zulu genre, while Ubaba pays tribute to the older generations, the forefathers who head up not just families, but communities and nations. Urban Village remains steeped in the cultural consciousness of South Africa’s troubled past, using their music to speak on the issues present. “We are human at the end of the day and dealing with real life and connecting to real people. When people listen to our songs, we are spreading the message of ubuntu and growing that village because this space is for all of us to share at the end of the day,” added Lichaba. Lichaba, singer and flautist Tubatsi Mpho Moloi, drummer Xolani Mtshali and bassist Simangaliso Dlamini make up the band. The Star