Washington mayor DC Muriel Bowser wrote on Twitter on Wednesday: “Time to pick up the pieces and heal this great nation.” She was referring to the 46th presidential inauguration that saw president-elect Joe Biden and vice-president-elect Kamala Harris being sworn into office following fiercely contested elections in November. There is no doubt that the Trump years signalled a tough and tense period in the lives of many Democrats. It also proved to be a regretful era for some Republicans who had believed in President Donald John Trump’s vision of “Making America Great Again (Maga)”. Did the Maga legacy work? Many across the world would argue that it did not. On the other hand, some people believe Trump’s presidency advocated for the nationalism and patriotism they feel has been missing. This seemingly also attracted other nations that believed that nationalism is sacrosanct. The Trump years also saw the former businessman’s administration being unapologetic regarding immigration policies. While the “Great Border Wall” has yet to be completed, it will remain a reminder of his legacy and what he set out to do. It is, therefore, no secret that Biden, who starts this week as America’s 46th president, has a monumental task ahead of him, to rebuild a country that is at war with itself. But that is not his only duty. For the next few years, he will be at pains to convince the world that the US is a formidable economic powerhouse that still rules the roost. He also has a responsibility to ensure that divisions between citizens do not worsen, and that matters such as gun control and racism are not swept under the carpet but, rather, dealt with decisively. Trump will eventually let go of all remnants of the White House. And while we don’t know what he will venture into next, his presence in the political landscape has taught not only the US, but also the world, how quickly leaders come and go and how an influential country’s stature can rapidly change for the worse. For the longest time, Trump’s presidency will remind many about the story of a businessman who once defied the odds and ascended to power in one of the world’s strongest political offices, and who changed the lives of Americans forever. The Star