Johannesburg - The state of security at Limpopo hospitals has come under scrutiny as the killing of patients while in the facilities increases. This comes after the death of Loos Nkosi, 77, at Evuxakeni Hospital. Nkosi was allegedly stabbed with a sharp object by another patient at the psychiatric hospital. DA provincial spokesperson Risham Maharaj called on Limpopo Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba to prioritise security at health facilities. “The province is in the midst of a surge in Covid-19 cases but the department cannot drop the ball on the safety of patients and staff at its facilities, especially vulnerable patients at a psychiatric hospital.” Maharaj said the incident should not be taken lightly by Ramathuba and her department. He said similar incidents should be avoided by putting measures in place to prioritise the safety of patients and staff at healthcare facilities. “We expect action to be taken against officials at the hospital in the event of neglect on their part.” Maharaj added that patient safety must be prioritised at all healthcare facilities and the department must provide reasonable security measures to maintain a safe environment where patients, the public and staff feel safe and secure within hospital grounds. “It is very concerning that this happened on the hospital premises and seems to have involved another patient.” Meanwhile, the department has stated that internal investigations into the matter are ongoing and that a case of murder has been opened with the suspect arrested. The department said the full details of the incident were however still not clear. Ramathuba has since extended her condolences to the bereaved family, while the province’s Social Development Department has called the family of the victim to come forward. Nkosi had been based at the psychiatric hospital since 2003. The Democratic Nurses Organisation of SA’s provincial secretary, Jacob Molepo, lashed out at the security levels at healthcare facilities in the province. “The department needs to do something, we cannot tolerate such incidents any longer. We lost innocent patients in Sekhukhune and in the Vhembe district. “The issue of security also came under the spotlight then but it seems nothing was done.” Molepo questioned the safety of nurses at the province’s healthcare facilities. “These are trying times for nurses across the province, with the coronavirus pandemic. We need to ensure that the safety of nurses is a priority but it seems as if they are being exposed.” Molepo went on to criticise the province’s Home Affairs Department for not keeping a data base of patients’ relatives. “We find it very unacceptable that social workers cannot locate the family of the dead. I understand that contact must be maintained with the families of patients at all times,” he said. The Star