The chaotic preparations for the Australian Open, the first tennis major of the year, is yet another vivid example of the huge challenges facing sports bodies in this time of the pandemic. More than 70 players remain in lockdown due to the emergence of Covid-19 cases on three charter flights to Melbourne. They have been unable to train for the tournament, which is due to start on February 8. World No 1 Novak Djokovic wrote a letter to organisers of the tournament with a list of requests to make isolation more palatable, which created quite a row. This was followed by Spanish star Roberto Bautista Agut slamming the quarantine conditions as “prison like”. Right now, the tournament will go ahead as planned, but how mentally and physically sharp will the players be after all the distractions? Elsewhere, Formula One chiefs were forced to postpone the Australian Grand Prix, moving it from March to November, while the Chinese Grand Prix is currently off the calendar. The F1 bosses say they need to be “flexible” for the rest of the year. And as each day passes, doubt grows over whether two of the biggest sporting events of the year – the Olympic Games in Japan (already postponed from last year) and the British and Irish Lions rugby tour to South Africa – will take place this year. The T20 cricket World Cup in India in October and November is also under threat. Here at home, Covid-19 led to, among other things, the cancellation of part of the England cricket tour to South Africa, and the Springboks withdrawing from the Rugby Championship. But even though South African fans have not been allowed back at the stadiums and have had to make do with a TV diet, there has at least been local football on a regular basis, the Proteas men and women’s cricket teams are currently playing Pakistan, and the Currie Cup rugby competition will reach its climax with the final between the Bulls and the Sharks at Loftus on Saturday. It all adds up to a year of great uncertainty ahead for sport, especially as our health remains everyone’s top priority. The Star