By Mitch Launspach From the time Julius Malema arrived on the scene, he has been an agitator, and has continually pushed the boundaries of what might be considered acceptable behaviour. In a country as volatile and violence-prone as South Africa, this type of demagoguery is unacceptable. Despite being the leader of a party represented in Parliament, and having taken an oath to respect the Constitution and uphold the laws of South Africa, Malema continually crosses the line. He is facing charges of firing an automatic weapon at an EFF rally, and another for assaulting a police officer who was executing his duties. In a TV interview, he said: “I have not called for the slaughter of whites. At least not yet!” More recently, he incited the looting and torching many Clicks stores, putting the lives of innocent people at risk. It would be difficult to imagine the leader of another parliamentary party, getting away with such blatant thuggery and racism. And yet Malema has suffered no sanction. Even before the Covid pandemic hit South Africa, unemployment levels were unacceptably high, which has resulted in huge suffering and hardship for millions of citizens. One of the biggest factors in this scenario, is the influx of illegal immigrants from neighbouring countries, who offer nothing more than their willingness to work for less than their South African counterparts. The illegal immigrants have access to all South Africa’s public services, despite the fact that they pay no taxes, which deprives our own citizens of the overburdened services. In addition, a disproportionally large number of illegal immigrants appear to be involved in crimes of one sort or another. Despite knowing this, the EFF has thought it fit to call for all border controls to be removed. Following the government’s decision to close the Beitbridge border post, Malema has encouraged illegal immigrants to use “creative” measures to gain access to South Africa. Will the authorities finally find the courage to take action against this demagogue who is a law unto himself, or does somebody have to die, before the ANC government finds its backbone? The Star