Johannesburg - The Department of Water and Sanitation has received two reports of damage to water infrastructure as a result of flooding during tropical storm Eloise. Several parts of the country have experienced persistent heavy rains which caused flooding and damage in three provinces as a result of Eloise over the past two weeks. The department said more than 5 000 registered dams in South Africa had “stood strong” in the midst of overflows because of the heavy rains. It said that since Eloise had reached South Africa, it had received only two reports of damage to water infrastructure. “These are the Pioneer Dam in the Kruger National Park as well as a barrage in Phalaborwa where a radial gate failed after being opened to release floods as result of the cyclone,” it said. The director in the dam safety regulation unit in the department, Wally Ramokopa, said that the Pioneer Dam reached 100% and there were fears that the spillway might not be sufficient. “However, the dam was able to safely route the floods without causing any damage,” he said. Ramokopa said most of the country’s large dams were designed to withstand floods and urged people that there was no need for people to learn about possible water infrastructure collapse. He added that the department enforced compliance for dam owners to conduct safety inspections at least every five years through the execution of formal dam safety inspections by an approved professional person (APP). “When carrying out the five safety evaluations, the APP will conduct a flood frequency analysis to check whether the dam is taken to route through different flood occurrences. “This helps us in knowing beforehand where the dam would be overtopped should a certain size of flood occur or potential damage to the dam occur,” he said. Ramokopa issued a stern warning to dam owners that the department would take action against those not complying with regulations as they were putting the lives of others at risk. He added that all owners are bound by law to comply and implement recommendations by APPs after inspections are conducted. “We are working very closely with highly specialised technicians to monitor major rivers where the cyclone could have a severe impact. “We are also part of the National Disaster Management Centre where we share data on any potential disaster during floods,” Ramakopa said. Meanwhile, Mpumalanga Premier Refilwe Mtshweni-Tsipane is expected to lead a group with Co-operative Governance MEC Mandla Msibi and Ehlanzeni District mayor Jesta Sidell on site visits today which will include inspections of damaged roads and bridges. The tropical storm, which was accompanied by heavy rains, left a trail of destruction, including damage to infrastructure and housing, the Mpumalanga provincial government said. It said five people were still missing after the devastating storm. The Star