Johannesburg - Gail Mabalane paid a sweet tribute his Kwaito legend husband, Kabelo “Bouga Luv” Mabalane, on the couple’s eighth wedding anniversary. The Blood & Water star posted a picture of her and hubby in matching shweshwe outfits on their wedding day eight years ago. In her post, the actress wished her “bestest friend” a happy anniversary and toasted to 80 more years together. “8 years ago I married my bestest friend. I’m so blessed that I get to do life with you @kabelomabalane to the next 80! #LookAtGod #IStillDo” She finished the tribute by revealing that her daughter, Zoe, who is turning six next month, wanted to know why she was not invited to her parents’ wedding. “Ps. Note Zoe wanting to know why she wasn’t invited to our wedding.” The former TKZee member also took to Instagram to share a heartfelt tribute to his wife. He posted a picture of the couple, simply captioning it: “Happy anniversary my baby @gail_mabalane 8 years ago today we began our incredible adventure. Our best days are ahead of us for sure.” Industry friends and fans congratulated the Mabalanes on their special day, wishing them more blessings in their journey as a married couple. “Happy anniversary Sis,” wrote former TV “Jam Alley” presenter, Pastor Pushie Watson. “Happy anniversary my faves. Sending you lots of love! Blessings upon blessings,” commented radio and television host, Mapaseka Mokwele. “Happy Anniversary G & K,” said Metro FM news anchor, Mel Bala. “Happy anniversary... be blessed with many more years of health and wealth,” added actor and TV host, Aaron Moloisi. “Wow time flies. Congrats to you guys! May you have another 80…mara tlebe le tsofetse yong! (but you guys will be too old),” wrote actor Tumisho Masha. The pair, who got married in 2013, have two children: six-year-old Zoe Mabalane and three-year-old Khumo Mabalane. Speaking to Azania Mosaka on 702, Mabalane said she was happy that his husband was a man of God when they first met. "One of the biggest things I was attracted to was that I didn't have to drag him to church because it was a big issue for me," she told Mosaka. In 2019, the Pantsula 4 Life hitmaker was officially ordained as a pastor at Rhema Bible Church, in Randburg. The Star