Johannesburg - The Police Ministry has continued to fight off potentially precedent-setting litigation that threatens to leave it exposed to damage claims amounting to millions of rand by victims of crime. Rape survivor Andisiwe “Andy” Kawa’s lawsuit against the police, on grounds that they were negligent during her ordeal and in the subsequent investigation, entered the Constitutional Court on Tuesday. Kawa, a businesswoman and activist, endured a 15-hour rape ordeal in the dunes along King’s Beach, Port Elizabeth, on December 9, 2010. She was held captive overnight there by a man who overpowered her while she took a walk along the beach. Kawa repeated publicly and in court that her rapist held her at knifepoint, assaulted, robbed and threatened to kill her. The man blindfolded her and raped her repeatedly overnight. No one was ever arrested for Kawa’s rape. She found fault in the police’s failure to locate her during their search, which included the use of K9 dogs and a helicopter. Kawa also took on the police for the fact that their investigation yielded no results. She won against the police at the Port Elizabeth High Court in 2018, where Acting Judge Sarah Sephton ruled the State was liable to pay 40% of her claim. This would amount to R2.3 million. But the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) set aside Judge Sephton’s ruling last year after Police Minister Bheki Cele launched an appeal. In a unanimous judgment, the court found that police took all reasonably practicable and appropriate steps to search for Kawa. “No negligence concerning the search was proved,” Judge Dumisani Zondi wrote in the judgment. The apex court heard arguments for and against the appeal of the SCA’s ruling on Tuesday. Kawa took the case to the Constitution Hill-based court. Timothy Bruinders SC, representing Kawa, told the court that his client contended that the police were under a constitutional duty to take all reasonable measures available to them to locate her. “She says that they negligently failed to discharge those duties,” said Bruinders. The court heard that police’s foot, dog and air crew searches were conducted negligently. Kawa’s assailant was not even concerned about the helicopter as it hovered farther from where he held her, Bruinders SC said. He said the police’s most glaring omission in the search was that the dog handler did not go to the dunes, though he was familiar with this section. “Nothing prevented him from searching that area.” CJ Mouton SC, for the Police Ministry, urged the court against a finding that exposed the police to liability for omissions during probes. He said Kawa had no case against the police because they did everything to find her. A specialised unit dealing with gender-based violence and violence against children was roped into the investigation, he said. “I repeat, with respect, that it cannot be every omission that should be able to allow the courts to visit police with liability,” Mouton said. “Lots of mistakes are often made in investigation of crimes. It's not as if police sat on their hands and did nothing. They did a lot of work. “We had a timeline before the Supreme Court of Appeal of all the steps the police took in those first few weeks and it was impressive.” The Star