Johannesburg - Achieving good grades will enable feminist Ammaarah Badsha help fight the scourge of gender-based violence (GBV) in the country. Badsha scored seven distinctions in English home language, Afrikaans first additional, maths, life orientation, history, life sciences and physical sciences. The Parktown High School for Girls learner is determined to make a meaningful contribution to what is described as a second pandemic in the country. “South Africa is (rated) among the rape capitals in the world and there is so much GBV. I want to create a world where women are treated as equal and they get recognised for their efforts.” The 18-year-old, has set her sights on a gynaecologist qualification, stating that there is a shortage of female gynaecologists in the country. “As a female gynaecologist I will be able to create a space where women will be comfortable to come and open up to me.” Badsha has earmarked the University of Witwatersrand as her first option, stating that it’s close to home. “There are many interesting factors that have caught my attention about Wits University. Like their ethnic society which I will definitely like to join.” “It’s very difficult to predict or anything, but I did my best for every subject and I am pretty confident.” Badsha said spending time with her family had helped take her mind off things and recharge for the next phase of her life. “After writing our exams I have been taking it easy at home with my family. Reading books and just continuous learning so overall I’m in a good space.” Badsha said her matric year was not what she expected with the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic disrupting many occasions and events. “I was so excited for all the events that are offered in matric and I was really looking forward to them but things turned out the other way.” Badsha told The Star that she quickly had to adapt to the new normal and execute all the tasks at hand. “I am very blessed to be part of Parktown Girls because I think the school handled the situation very well and managed to still offer us some of the events under strict Covid-19 guidelines.” She advised the Class of 2021 to always open up to their teachers and do their utmost best. “They must know that they are not alone. What they are going through is normal and something that others also dealt with and in the end may they achieve what their hearts desire.” The Star