Johannesburg - Friends Arthur Nhlanhla Kubheka and Armstrong Ngidi owned successful businesses from which they each earned up to R1 million a year. But that did not stop them from jamming cars in Joburg and stealing items from them. Their theft of an iPod and cellphone from a car in the Randburg Magistrate Court’s parking area landed them in jail in January 2018. Kubheka is serving a five-year sentence, while Ngidi was slapped with eight years behind bars, owing to two previous convictions over theft and fraud charges in 2001. The jailbirds are now headed to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) to challenge the sentences. The SCA will hear arguments on “whether the sentence imposed was so severe (as) to induce a sense of shock,” according to the court’s notice. In a matter set for February 25, the pair’s lawyer will also argue that they should have been handed correctional supervision sentences. Kubheka, 46, and Ngidi, 50, were caught red-handed stealing from a Mercedes-Benz. A security guard manning CCTV cameras at the court saw one of them opening a Mercedes parked near their rented Chevrolet. The owner of the Mercedes rushed to the crime scene after he saw a commotion near his car. He confirmed to guards and police that his car was no longer locked and an iPod and Blackberry phone were missing. The iPod, valued at about R3 000, was found in the Chevrolet, but not the Blackberry. Other items found in the Chev included four cellphones, two modems, three keys with remotes and another iPod. The SCA application will be Kubheka and Ngidi’s second attempt to get out of jail. Things went south for them at the South Gauteng High Court in June 2019 when they tried to appeal both conviction and sentence. Judge Bashier Vally and Acting Judge PH Malungana confirmed the convictions and increased their initial sentences. Kubheka was sentenced to four years imprisonment of which two years were suspended, while Ngidi was jailed for four years. Judges Vally and Malungana cited the gravity of the crime for increasing the jail terms. “The offence for which the two appellants were convicted is very serious. It involved a carefully planned and executed operation. And they did so by employing a sophisticated method of jamming the locking mechanisms of the motor vehicles of these unsuspecting persons. It is a grave offence,” said the judges. The jailbirds’ social standing also did them no favours. “The first appellant (Kubheka) has a civil engineering degree and earns R1m annually. By any standard, this is a substantial earning. He used his technical skill to commit the crime of stealing from a motor vehicle.” “Similarly, the second appellant earned a salary of R828 000 annually. He too, is a sophisticated businessman,” the judges said about Ngidi, a Northcliff resident. The Star