Johannesburg - Parktown High Girls’ bubbly and optimistic Madiha Acoob is already imagining herself at the prestigious medical school at the University of Witwatersrand. The transition will see the 18-year-old remain in Parktown, but this time around, lecture halls, laboratories and medical scrubs will become part of her life. Acoob said the long wait for her matric results has been filled with anxiety and excitement, as she eagerly waits for the next chapter in her life. Acoob scored seven distinctions in English Home Language, Afrikaans first additional, maths, life orientation, accounting, life sciences and physical sciences. “I still get nervous whenever I think about it. I just want to get through this and focus on what comes next in my life,” she said. Acoob revealed that she spends most of her time reading to relax and get her mind off things. Ranked amongst the top achievers at the Parktown based school, Acoob, downplays her achievements. “I am aware that I have done well in the past but this is a different story now and I would obviously love to achieve what I have achieved in the past but we will wait and see.” Acoob told The Star that she worked hard for every exam she wrote and that singling out subjects where she will get a distinction will be difficult. “Life Science was my favourite subject at school. So at the moment I am hoping and crossing fingers that everything will go well. I am hoping there are no expectations,” she said. However, Acoob, admitted that the implementation of online learning worked in her favour as she found the transition advantageous. “I was at my best, actually, that’s where I strived the most being around my parents and working on my school work at the same time was best for me.” She stated that her parents have been supportive and encouraging her every step of the way. Acoob has been part of Parktown girls since grade 8, she spoke highly of the school, stating that they always strive for excellence. “It was a great experience, I’m really glad that I was part of the Parktown Girls' family for the past five years. I will always be grateful for the teachers who taught me and my loving school mates.” The university bound student advised this year’s matrics to find balance and make use of every opportunity they get. “The teachers are there to guide them and they should make sure that they stay focused. The workload will sometimes get hectic but with the right attitude it's manageable.” The Star