Johannesburg - Emergency response teams from The Salvation Army in southern Africa have been providing support for people stranded at South Africa's borders as a result of Covid19 restrictions. Enhanced border control measures have created delays at closed borders. The Salvation Army teams, each consisting of 11 people with specially-provided personal protective equipment, have been working at the border posts between South Africa and Zimbabwe, Mozambique, eSwatini and Lesotho. At each location, people trying to cross the border have been delayed by up to six days in extreme heat, resulting in dehydration, heat exhaustion, malnutrition and significant stress. In some instances, queues of trucks waiting to convey goods across the border have stretched for more than 15km. The Salvation Army’s territorial leaders for southern Africa, Colonels Daniel and Tracey Kasuso, formed part of the team on the Beitbridge border with Zimbabwe, while chief secretary and territorial secretary for Women’s Ministries Lieutenant-Colonel Jabulani and Fikile Khoza were part of the Lebombo border team with Mozambique. Health information is being distributed in each location, along with packs containing snacks and hygiene items. Each traveller – up to 800 in each distribution – is given 1.5 litres of bottled water, long-life milk, bread, energy bars, fruit and sweet treats, as well as a bar of soap, a wash cloth and hand sanitiser. Mindful of the elevated risk of human trafficking across country borders in such challenging times, The Salvation Army is also providing leaflets to drivers and passengers, containing information on how to be alert to the risks. A new public health poster campaign, developed at The Salvation Army’s International Headquarters in London, is being translated into Afrikaans, Xhosa, Zulu and other southern African languages. Captain Velani Buthelezi, the public relations secretary for The Salvation Army in southern Africa, says:“The emergency response is set to carry on, particularly at the eSwatini and Lesotho borders, as regulations continue to be subject to change.” The Salvation Army is co-ordinating with South African government agencies including the departments of health, social development, home affairs and the Border Control Police, as well as the Consortium for Refugees and Migrants in South Africa and several other non-governmental organisations such as Gift of the Givers. The Salvation Army, an international movement, is an evangelical part of the universal Christian Church. Its message is based on the Bible. anna.cox@inl.co.za The Star