Johannesburg - Petrus Durant, the security firm owner jailed for murdering a farm tractor driver, is out to convince the courts to free him on grounds that he killed in the interest of the community. On Wednesday, the South Gauteng High Court, sitting at the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court heard Durant’s application for leave to appeal his conviction and 20-year sentence over the senseless murder of Aaron Mutavhatsindi. Durant shot Mutavhatsindi in the head while he drove the blue Landini tractor he used for his duties at the Bartlett Eggs Farm. Hours after his senseless killing on January 6, 2018, photos of a dead Mutavhatsindi circulated on social media. The murder sparked outrage that Mutavhatsindi was another victim of racism. It was common cause that Mutavhatsindi had taken the tractor without permission and sought to drive to his shack with it. Bartlett management reported to Durant, whose firm Razorvox was contracted for the farm’s security, that Mutavhatsindi had reported the tractor stolen. This set Durant on a high-speed chase against a tractor that drove at about 40km/h. After firing several shots in the air, Durant told the court that he decided to “finish him off" as he drove. The "finish him off" confession led to Judge Ramarumo Monama finding Durant guilty of premeditated murder. The killer, a former police officer, started serving his 20 years imprisonment sentence in January last year. But he was back before Judge Monama on Wednesday to argue that the guilty verdict and sentence were a grave injustice. Advocate Sita Kolbe SC, representing Durant, submitted that Mutavhatsindi was killed lawfully because he drove the tractor recklessly and posed a danger to residents of the informal community Matshelapata. “Objectively, this person was a danger. On the State’s case, this person drove dangerously also through the squatter camp,” Kolbe told Judge Monama. She said the judge erred by rejecting evidence that Mutavhatsindi endangered human lives, drove through a funeral procession and caused damage to structures. Kolbe said her client maintained that after witnessing this mayhem, he shot Mutavhatsindi just as he was about to knock down two women in Matshelapata. Prosecutor Carla Britz reminded the court that Durant’s evidence included a claim that Mutavhatsindi knocked down a child. She said this claim was later plucked out from his body of evidence. Britz argued that this was an example that Durant’s story about why he shot Mutavhatsindi kept on changing and was littered with fabrications. She said if Mutavhatsindi knocked down a child, drove through two funeral processions and wreaked havoc in Matshelapata, odds were that residents would not be so enraged with Durant. Judge Monama reserved judgment. The Star