Johannesburg - A matric pupil fom St Mary’s Waverley school for girls who scooped eight distinctions in matric is determined to follow her dream to study music despite excelling in her academic subjects. Elliot Rogers is determined to follow her passion for music. The student who did well in her final exams told The Star that her plan was to study music at Wits University. “I was really nervous about my results. The plans I have for this year is to study music at Wits University. I have always been passionate about music and dramatic arts,” said Rogers. True to her passion, of the eight distinctions Rogers obtained, Music and Dramatic Arts were among them. “I have won a series of music competitions. One of my most memorable ones was the Battle of the Bands in which I was a runner-up and one where a friend and I got the opportunity to record a song in a studio,” she said. The young music enthusiast writes and produces her own songs and hopes one day to share it with the world. Rogers, who was among the first group of matriculants to write their exams under the pressure of a pandemic, told The Star she found it difficult to adapt to online classes, particularly those that required practicals. “2020 was really challenging. We had to adapt to online classes and drama and music was very difficult as we had to do it online. It took away from the learning that we would normally have where teachers were able to help you,” said Rogers. “It was difficult having to self-motivate and keep to your schedule as being at home comes with a lot of distractions.” Although she was determined to get through her exams, she said that her health did take a knock. “I was really determined to get through the exams without any problems but I did get persistent migraines,” said Rogers. Rogers advised students to take care of themselves and ensure that they got enough sleep before and during exams. She obtained eight distinctions in the: Advanced programme, English; Dramatic Arts; Zulu; Life Orientation; Mathematics; Music and Physical Science. The Star