Johannesburg - Nasty C is giving his fans some insight on what has been going on in his life and what he has had to go through to get to where he is now. “I also want to give them a heads-up on what to expect if any of them want to become artists. From the business side of it to the good and the bad and all that stuff,” said the award winning rapper. His podcast, aptly titled Zulu Man With Some Power after his latest album, will be a seven-episode series produced by Nasty C and hosted by Nomuzi Moozlie Mabena. Each episode will feature an industry heavy-weight including Black Coffee, Slikour and Sizwe Dhlomo. “I have a relationship with all of them and they are better at talking than me, so I figured I needed someone to kind of help me carry the weight, because they are used to being on screen and doing this type of stuff. “They all come from different walks of life and all their careers have been amazing and challenging at the same time, so they also know exactly what happens behind the scenes.” The episodes will unpack invaluable lessons on how to build a sustainable career in the entertainment industry. The podcast takes place at the AMPD Studios by Old Mutual. The space in Newtown is a hub for creativity, designed to help build a powerful infrastructure for the entertainment industry. The space hosts a boardroom, networking space, radio studio, stage, recording studio and YouTube video equipment with software tools to help content creators. All people need to enter the space is to open a Money Market account with Old Mutual. Nasty C has travelled the world over and had the chance to experience different cultures. But, he says, it is difficult to compare the reception he receives from different parts of the world. “It would be weird to compare, because in every country or continent that I go to I always go there with something already under my belt and here at home when I started I had nothing under my belt. “I was a newcomer, I was fresh, I had nothing to say. Everywhere else I go it’s like I am big in SA and they get to see what that is about.” He said fans can look forward to really getting a chance to learn about the industry. “They must get ready to soak up a lot of ‘game’ and learn from the mistakes that we speak about. “They will learn from the loyalty that we display because there is an episode where it’s just about me and how I stayed down with the people I am still with right now. “They will learn about not being afraid to take charge and control of the business side of their own careers. “They will learn a lot from the episode with Black Coffee where he really shone a light on that. “They will learn a lot.” The podcast will be available on Spotify and YouTube. The Star