Our world has reached a heart-wrenching milestone: the Covid-19 pandemic has now claimed more than 2.2 million lives. Behind this staggering number are names and faces: the smile now only a memory, the seat forever empty at the dinner table, the room that echoes with the silence of a loved one. Sadly, the deadly impact of the pandemic has been exacerbated by the absence of a global co-ordinated effort. Vaccine nationalisation is the new enemy. In the memory of all those who have departed, the religious community, traditional communities and academic sector must act with far greater solidarity. While there is strong propaganda against the Covid-19 vaccines, we must all be committed to making sure that vaccines are seen as a global public good. The world’s leading economies have a special responsibility. They must reject vaccine nationalisation. Vaccines are reaching high-income countries quickly, while the world’s poorest have none at all. Science is succeeding — but international solidarity is failing. Some countries are pursuing side deals, even procuring beyond their need. Governments have a responsibility to protect their populations, but “vaccinationalism” is self-defeating and will delay a global recovery. Covid-19 cannot be beaten one country at a time. We need manufacturers to step up their commitment to work with the Covax facility and countries around the world to ensure enough supply and fair distribution. We need countries to commit to sharing excess doses of vaccines. This would help vaccinate all health-care workers around the world urgently and protect health systems from collapse. Others on the frontline, including humanitarian workers and high-risk populations, must be prioritised. To gain public trust, we must boost vaccine confidence and knowledge with effective communication grounded in facts. Let’s also remember the simple and proven steps we can all take to keep each other safe: wearing masks, physically distancing and avoiding crowds. Global solidarity will save lives, protect people and help defeat the virus. We must reject the silent racist voice of vaccine nationalisation. We must speak against it. We must mobilise against it. The Star