Johannesburg -  A father of three and gardener, who worked odd jobs to obtain a law degree, was shocked after the son of his employer raised money to buy him a vehicle to expand his work opportunities. Robert Maposa, 43, from Mamelodi East, Pretoria was born to an underprivileged family where he learned to make the most of his opportunities. The father of three sons, Wonderful and Timothy, Robert, was determined to build a better life for his wife Hitahlula and worked as a gardener and did odd jobs to put himself through matric at 28. Maposa went on to study for a law degree at the University of South Africa. “I tried everything to pay on my own and some of my employers did not understand my plans, so it was really difficult for me, but I thank God that I’m done,” he said. Maposa told The Star that despite the obstacles in his path, the father of three exceeded by obtaining his LLB degree from the University of South Africa with distinction last year. “I am preparing to write board exams so I attend night school that runs from 5.30pm all the way to 10pm. It was hard for me to go home because I had to wait for a taxi and sometimes I’d wait for almost 30 to 45 minutes so I needed a car,” he said. Maposa added that when he was applying to law firms, having your own vehicle was a requirement. Jonathan Smith, who has known Maposa since he was 8-year-old as the aspiring lawyer who worked for his family, stepped in and launched a crowdfunding campaign via crowdfunding platform BackABuddy. The 23-year-old launched the fundraising campaign to surprise Maposa with a second-hand car for the father to expand his work opportunities as Maposa prepares for his board exams. “I have been so fortunate to grow up around Robert. When I was younger, he would tell me stories and let me help in the garden. As I’ve grown, I’ve learned to appreciate his kind spirit even more, and I couldn’t be prouder of what he has achieved. I know given the slightest chance, that he will be a major success,” Smith said. Maposa added that he fondly remembered Smith as a happy young boy following him around the garden. “He was my little friend and he was very happy when I passed, and I’m thankful to him,” Maposa said. Smith said he was overwhelmed by the support he received for the campaign as he raised over R45 791,87 towards the fundraising target of R60 000 to purchase Maposa a set of wheels. “We are so excited to read Robert the messages of support he has received and let him know that we have been raising funds for a car for him in ‘secret’. He has worked so hard and so diligently for so long, he really deserves all the praise,” Smith said. Smith added that the additional funds raised through the campaign would go towards buying Maposa a laptop and smart work clothes as he begins his professional career. Maposa said he was working towards becoming a lawyer because he believed that the people of South Africa needed justice. “There are so many people who are victims of bad governance and bad justice, and if you were to go to jail now, you would find people who are in prison for nothing. Around black communities, there is too much violence including domestic violence and child abuse, and I have to do something to give people justice,” he said. @Chulu_M 