Johannesburg - When  you leave for work or school, spare a thought for the more than 2 million South Africans for whom education or employment opportunities may not come so easily. Although the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is annually commemorated on December 3 as a fund-raising project, people should be aware of it all year round. People living with disabilities are disproportionally limited in terms of their access to education and employment. According to Statistics South Africa, over 2.8 million South Africans or 7.5% of the national population live with a disability – and this does not include statistics on children under 5 or people with psychosocial and certain neurological disabilities. “It was only when I was 14 and in high school that I came to understand that we live in a world where not everyone is kind. “I was not the most popular kid at school and I had to find my own way in this world. I had to accept that this was the life I was given, this is the hand I was dealt. “It was up to me to ensure that I make the most of it, by not pitying myself or expecting others to feel sorry for me,” says Life Ngubane, 34, a pharmacy assistant at Medipost Pharmacy and an ambassador for people with disabilities within Medipost Holdings. “I have a brain, I have a voice, and a very thick skin.” As ambassador for people with disabilities, Ngubane feels strongly about educating people with disabilities. “My message to individuals with disabilities is not to surrender to unemployment statistics. Use your voices to educate those around you about what it means to live with a disability.” Every day brings its own struggles. “I never know whether five taxis are going to drive past without giving me a second thought. I never know whether someone will be willing to assist me with reaching the button for an elevator or help open a door.” Ngubane is fiercely independent and sees herself just as any other person, albeit a “short” person, who just happens to have to use a wheelchair. “There is no reason to feel sorry for me. I was born this way and I have accepted it a long time ago. “What we want is equal opportunities, for people to understand that we are not as different from them as they may think. We have a meaningful contribution to make to society. “We need to break down the stigmas that teach us that there is something wrong with a person who is living with a disability and start seeing everyone as simply being human.” She entered the world as one of a set of twins their parents were not expecting. Life has a twin brother born minutes before her – and before the medical team and her parents knew a second baby was on its way. “I came as a complete surprise,” Not only was she born unexpectedly, she was also born with severe spina bifida, a birth defect that happens when the spine does not develop normally, and as part of her condition, she was born with muscle weakness, loss of bladder control and paralysis. “As a small child I was in and out of hospital. I had to have several operations and around the clock care. Being born in a rural community in Richards Bay, KwaZulu-Natal my family had challenges. “It was only through the medical team that my parents were made aware and encouraged to understand that I was quite a bright child and that I had to be given the opportunity of a proper education, that there are schools for children with disabilities.” Ngubane was placed in a remedial boarding school at age 5 and had to learn quickly to be independent. “There was very little sympathy.” When she went to high school, she had to relocate to Soshanguve in Pretoria, while her family remained behind. She completed matric and had big dreams of university, but life didn’t turn out that way. “I eventually secured a position as a receptionist at Medipost and decided that I was not going to be a statistic.” Rentia Myburgh, sales and marketing director of Medipost Holdings and the MediTraining Academy, says: “We employed Life as a receptionist in 2011. She told us in no uncertain terms this was not what she wanted to do for the rest of her life, and was given an opportunity to register for the pharmacist’s assistant course through the MediTraining Academy. She graduated in 2015. She has been working as a pharmacy assistant ever since.” The Star