Johannesburg - Fourways High School’s top achiever who obtained seven distinctions in her final matric exams has her eyes set on helping others and aspires to become a medical doctor. Tanvi Sujanani told The Star that her matric year had started strongly before the coronavirus pandemic. “My year started off pretty strong pre-corona, but when lockdown started it was a very stressful experience for us but our school was great because they started their online learning programme pretty early,” she said. Tanvi said she was thankful for her school although online learning was different from face-to-face learning. “You have to adapt to a few more things and you can’t ask your teachers a few more questions right there and then but we had to adapt. So it was stressful at first but we adapted,” she said. The matriculant added that her teachers would send videos of their lessons with source material for the learners to study. “That was good because it wasn’t really self-studying because you had a teacher there to explain the work in a video but I could not just ask a question in real time,” she said. Tanvi said her matric year was a lesson on taking initiative. “There wasn’t a teacher there to make sure that you weren’t sleeping in class or something like that, so you sort of had to just take it into your own hands and make sure that you did the work yourself,” she said. The matriculant’s initiative paid off for her as she was able to obtain seven distinctions in her final matric exams. She achieved distinctions in life orientation, English Home Language, Afrikaans, maths, information technology, life sciences and physical sciences. Tanvi said 2020 was a bit of a disappointment for her because she came into the year excited to participate in her favourite extra murals including volleyball and first aid society. “We were obviously very disappointed when we weren’t allowed to do anymore and I’m sure there are some people who would have loved to have a last year to play rugby or netball or something.” She said this year she was hoping to study towards a medical degree at the University of the Witwatersrand, although she had also applied at the University of Pretoria and UCT. “I’ve always liked the idea of doing medicine because I like biology and I enjoy the idea of helping people.” @Chulu_M chulumanco.mahamba@inl.co.za The Star