Johannesburg - St John’s College pupil Leo Fridjhon has proven that he is not just a Kung-Fu star, but also an academic gem. Fridjhon has the distinction of being the youngest South African to grade to purple in Kung-Fu, a milestone he achieved in 2019, when he was 18-years-old after being trained in Taiwan where he was a member of the South African squad. A year later, that excellence transferred to the classroom, as he bagged seven distinctions in Afrikaans First Additional Language, English Home Language, History, Life Orientation, Life Sciences, Mathematics and Physical Sciences. Fridjhon shared his method of studying and revision, stating that surrounding himself with the right people was also key. “It seems like I revised by going over millions and millions of past exam papers and the incredibly supportive group of St John’s friends. I surrounded myself with the right people and we supported each other all the way through.” Fridjhon also gave credit to his St John’s teachers, stating that they made lessons fun and that family support that gave him all the time and space he needed to prepare for final exams. Fridjhon indicated that he would like to pursue his economics and finance studies in Hong Kong. However, he will have a difficult time choosing to study locally or move abroad. Fridjhon said he applied to tertiary institutions, both at home and abroad. “In Asia, it’s a different culture. It will grant me the opportunity to see the world. It’s a really great course, and if I do well in my third year, I could get an opportunity to go study in Columbia in New York.” The St John’s College learner disclosed that his mental health was compromised as things took a turn in the previous academic year. “I spent a lot of time working and not being by myself and making time for other activities that I was used to.” He stated that being restricted to his yard saw his time being divided between his study desk and Kung-Fu training in the driveway. “I would try and make time for both. I was not used to the set up in the beginning, but as time went by, I got used to it and I managed to juggle both and execute it out perfectly.” The Star