Johannesburg - Nomfundo Moh was born in a small town in KwaZulu-Natal. But the energetic 20-year-old has a big personality and is ready for the spotlight. “I’ve always loved music. I started off in church choirs and built from there. I kept on growing in music and started writing my own songs from around 2016 when I was in Grade 11. From there I just knew I would never be able to put music aside. So I decided to do something about it,” said the bubbly singer whose full name is Nomfundo Ngcobo. It has been an interesting journey for the singer-songwriter who began by producing covers in her bedroom until she found streaming success with the song, Lilizela. Earlier this month, Ngcobo released the single after taking it down from digital platforms in September last year. The song now has a new life and a new interpretation that her fans can appreciate. “Lilizela is about embracing and cherishing love. I am also trying to get people to realise the importance of love. Nowadays people don’t see love for what it is, they only think of it as bringing heartbreak. “I want people to have that positive feeling about love, it can be a beautiful thing. When you see people in love, rejoice with them, because your turn could be coming next.” Ngcobo is loving every step of her music journey. “It’s given me that chance to shine and I feel so good about that. I enjoy songwriting so having the platform to express myself and for people to hear what I write is a big achievement for me. My biggest dream now is to perform live for an audience.” Her dreams of music weren’t initially met with the same excitement from her family as they know the music industry to be cut-throat. “I am very glad my family is supporting me now. When I first started to show interest in music, they did not approve because of how the industry is and they knew I could do a lot more outside of music. My mom had that fear that I might not make it. She has always encouraged me to do other things outside of music. I took that advice and I am now doing my fourth year studying towards a Bachelor’s degree in Social Work.” She said she was glad she took the time to focus on her studies and let the music come into her life when it was time. “I could never abandon music because I love it so much. I believe, deep down in my heart, that I am going to go far with it.” Music lovers can look forward to another single release from Ngcobo very soon. “My next single is titled Umthwalo. I am working on an album and it is 90% close to completion. It will be titled Amagama.” Her stage name Nomfundo Moh is also her childhood nickname which she got from her family. “I’m very petite and as an energetic child my family would joke about how I would be jumpy like a mosquito. I don’t usually tell people how Moh came about,” she chuckled. Ngcobo wants people to get to know more about her through the music. “My music is Afropop because I am inspired by the African sound. My music has a lot of elements in it. You will find love songs, soul, trapsoul, Afropop and some House music because I used to be a House vocalist. I am accommodating everyone with this upcoming album.” Lilizela is available on all streaming platforms. The Star