Johannesburg - The well-being of three employees missing at ArcelorMittal’s plant in Vanderbijlpark has raised great concern. The workers are reportedly missing after an explosion at the plant at around 2am on Wednesday and allegations have suggested that the three are trapped under the rubble inside the plant. Speaking outside the plant on Wednesday, National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi-Majola said ArcelorMittal had no rescue team on site. “Workers have volunteered and are risking their lives to go and try and retrieve workers from under the collapsed building.” Hlubi-Majola said a meeting with the management was heated as the union made it clear that the company was not doing enough to rescue the employees. “The company spoke about the workers as if they were already deceased and for us this was a great concern. Secondly, the management was reluctant to call for help outside as they felt that they had enough resources, but we found that this was not the case.” Hlubi-Majola said they were worried that this would be another Lilly Mine situation and that management should treat the matter with the urgency they would apply if one of them was trapped. Hlubi-Majola said the company had since agreed to seek external help from nearby mining companies to assist with the search and rescue. An employee who spoke on condition of anonymity said: “It looks like they are trapped, and looking at the hours that have gone by so far, it’s really discouraging.” The employee indicated that the company had no rescue team in place. “Well the union had to pressurise the company to make sure that they get a search-and-rescue unit. I mean, as employees we are traumatised at the moment, so how do they expect us to be fully functional and search for our colleagues?” ArcelorMittal South Africa confirmed that there had been an incident at its Vanderbijlpark site which has resulted in three employees being unaccounted for. “A portion of a 90m stack at one of the operation’s coke batteries failed in the early hours of the morning on Wednesday and fell on to the coke battery control room in which the three employees were working,” the company said. It said search-and-rescue teams were on site and all efforts were focused on finding the missing employees. The cause of the incident was not known at this stage, but the company had launched a full investigation. ArcelorMittal SA stated that all relevant authorities had been notified and that the company would provide its full support to their investigations. “The company has reached out to the families of the employees and will offer the necessary assistance.” Kobus Verster, chief executive ArcelorMittal South Africa, reiterated that the safety of their employees and contractors remained their primary concern, and that their focus wasn the search for their employees and to give support to their families and colleagues. “The area has been made safe, however, the battery has been damaged by the incident and will likely be out for repairs once the extent of the damage has been determined.” The Star