By Lerato Mohone Johannesburg -  Pursuing academics in a secular institution, in this instance the University of the Witwatersrand where she attended classes in her nun’s habit, Catholic Sister Doctor Macdelyn Mosalagae had her fair share of challenges. Ironically she was studying for a doctorate in inclusivity studies. “Being in a nun’s outfit, in the beginning on my own, I had bouts of loneliness. I came to learn that people did not really know how to approach me,” she added. On one occasion Mosalagae was walking in Braamfontein and an Uber-driving lady stopped to greet her. She remarked that she had never met a nun before. “People just assume what you are and those with courage engage you. Some men on campus would propose love to me – some were putting me to the test while others did not see a religious sister, but a woman. This often presented an opportunity for me to teach them about my faith and religious life. Her response to these men, she said, was to say: “Thank you for taking the risk to voice your attraction to me. That said, I am very much committed to myself, faith and academics.” As a result, she said, they respected her and her convictions. There were two different people within her, she said: Sister Macdelyn who was steeped in prayer, living out her congregation’s spirituality, and Macdelyn the person who appreciated fun, sports and being talked to and befriended. Over time, her interactions with fellow students improved and meaningful friendships were forged. When she graduated with a doctorate in inclusive education from Wits on the morning of December 14, 2020, it was not only a momentous occasion for her, but for a number of people. “Here I was embarking on a journey on inclusivity and I experienced exclusion because of my (nun’s) habit. “It was a personal achievement, the highlight of my academic growth. “I represented myself as a woman, the first person in my family to attain this degree of education, my religious order, the congregation of sisters and the first woman religious to achieve this qualification in my country, Botswana. I also realised I carried the dreams and expectations of so many people in my community,” she said. Mosalagae is a member of the Sisters of Calvary. At the heart of her congregation’s spirituality is compassion for broken families and the youth, prison ministry, and inclusivity for marginalised communities. Her thesis was titled, “A capabilities approach to an African inclusive education in the technical vocational education and training sector in Botswana.” Having been awarded her Master’s degree in Glasgow, Scotland, and admission for her doctorate in New Zealand, she said it was imperative that she chose a university closer to home. Inclusivity for Europe is different to that of Africa, she said. Rank, repute, diversity and a supervisor who understands the concept of Botho/Ubuntu from the perspective of an African, played a major role in her choice of tertiary institution. With a passion for inclusivity, her activities extend to prison ministry where, for more than a decade, she has offered psycho-social support and teaching about restorative justice to prisoners. Restorative justice seeks to make them acknowledge their wrongdoing and apologise to the victims and get them rehabilitated, she says. Professionally, Mosalagae is a lecturer at Gaborone Technical College where she works with young people with mild intellectual disability, dyslexia, bipolar disorder and behavioural disorders, among others. “I train them to be equipped in the field of hospitality. They are very dexterous with their hands and when given the skills, like everybody else, they are able to live up to their true potential,” she said. People with disabilities are excluded in various ways. These exclusionary practices and policies include discrimination, victimisation, labelling and bullying. Mosalagae said her qualification would help her advance the implementation of inclusionary practices in the education sector that accommodate every learner. It would also help her to advocate for those marginalised in the church, as well as within her congregation and community. Mosalagae admitted that she had encountered trials and had felt like giving up. Coming from a country that is democratically, politically and economically stable and pursuing higher learning in a country with a legacy of apartheid, she arrived to begin her studies at the height of the Fees Must Fall movement. “I had to contend with constant disruption of studies. My first supervisor was also so tough that I began to doubt if I was really PhD material. My mother also died. I believed had I failed, I would have let her spirit down, so that also motivated me. My faith carried me through. I also had a wonderful support structure in family, congregation and friends,” she said. Mosalagae said she and her fellow PhD candidates spent nights in laboratories burning the midnight oil. They offered each other a shoulder to lean on when they received feedback from tough supervisors. Her next goal? Professorship. “I am so determined that I have already started writing my articles,” she said, beaming. The Star