All hail the mighty Bulls! Those famous Loftus Versfeld fans with bull rings in their noses would have been celebrating their team’s Currie Cup triumph over the Sharks on Saturday in the confines of their homes, due to Covid-19. But that doesn’t make the 26-19 victory over the Sharks any less sweet. That is due to the fact that about only 10 months ago, the Bulls were in the doldrums. They had lost five out of six Super Rugby matches, and fired coach Pote Human as a result. Some relief was about to come their way, as the coronavirus lockdown saw the Super Rugby tournament cancelled. It gave the Bulls a chance to sign on former Springbok coach Jake White as their director of rugby, and he went about a player recruitment and culling spree that was dramatic, but also necessary. There were no guarantees that these drastic moves would lead to success, but after months of inactivity, the Bulls hit the ground running in the Super Rugby Unlocked competition, producing an outstanding brand of attacking play that saw them clinch the title. They did well off the field, too, by keeping all their players fit and ensuring that they adhered to strict Covid-19 protocols to avoid contracting the virus, which allowed them to fulfil all six of their fixtures. They continued in this vein in the Currie Cup, with players making major sacrifices to keep going during the summer, when South African rugby is normally on a break. Captain Duane Vermeulen led by example on and off the pitch – he stays in a hotel close to Loftus stadium, as his wife and children live in Cape Town. Everything at the Bulls screams professional, and it showed on the field. They now hold every provincial title: Under-19, Under21, Currie Cup and Super Rugby Unlocked. The Sharks had a great chance to clinch the Currie Cup trophy, but made a number of mistakes to lose out in extra time. But perhaps destiny played a role in the outcome, as the Bulls have been the true champions of South African rugby throughout the season. The Star