When the Class of 2020 entered the school gates on 15 January 2020, their first day as the leaders of Kingsmead College, they had no idea what lay ahead of them. They expected the rites of passage, the leadership opportunities, events, sports matches, orchestra performances and consolidated academic time with their teachers. They had big ideas on how to make an impact in their various leadership roles and what policies they were going to set out to change, they had just one year to make their mark and leave their legacy. Little did they know that these big ideas would be stalled and that as they left school on Friday, 13 March, it was the last time they would hug their friends on campus and their last school day without masks, concerns around social distancing and the risk of catching the virus that was about to grip the world. Yet, with all the curveballs thrown their way this group of 61 students took the challenge and managed to inspire their school community during the lockdown with virtual challenges, motivational videos, messages of hope and inspiration. Dedicating themselves to making a difference, be it giving back to community organisations in various ways or forming discussion groups and networking opportunities with the student heads of other schools, so that all was not lost but a different layer of social development was created. It became a year of growth, of change, of coming together while staying apart. While many of the expected and traditional rites of passage were not completed and these students experienced a great sense of loss, they also learned to be resilient and committed to finishing their school year. This is evident in the exceptional IEB NSC Results achieved with 100% pass rate and entrance into a University Degree Course and a total of 227 distinctions, an average of 3.7 distinctions per student. These results truly speak to the courage that grows within the supportive and inspirational environment created at Kingsmead College. Lisa Palmer, Executive Head congratulates the Class of 2020. Their outstanding results in the NSC Final Examinations are the result of their determination, resilience, and commitment during an exceptionally challenging year. This group of students have proved that they are a class with which to be reckoned and will, no doubt, go on to make a difference in the world. We are delighted with the results of each individual student and with the class as a whole. We pay a special tribute to the superb teaching staff at Kingsmead – both in the Junior and the Senior schools – who nurtured and prepared these students for their journey. To the Class of 2020 - we wish you every success in your bright futures.  