Johannesburg - Diageo South Africa, together with the South African National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Soweto (Sanca Soweto) and local comedian and broadcaster, Felix Hlophe, are challenging South African consumers to become responsible drinkers. They’re offering a free bank of evidence-based information on alcohol consumption, and professional advice. DRINKIQ.com, an online resource developed by Diageo and initiated globally, was recently relaunched with a new look and feel to provide updated and comprehensive information on alcohol to the South African public. The database includes tools, facts and support around issues of alcohol consumption from potential health and safety dangers, to the opportunity for more enjoyable social experiences when taken in moderation. There’s expert advice on how to enhance general physical and mental well-being, and where to find professional assistance if needed. The information is based on academic and medical research compiled and approved by internationally recognised industry bodies, and includes important alcohol consumption guidelines, policies and regulations rubber-stamped by governments around the world. Information on DRINKiQ includes the effect of drinking alcohol on mental health; how drinking affects pregnancy and breastfeeding; how to be a more mindful drinker for a more positive drinking experience; myths about drinking alcohol; how the body processes alcohol; how to talk to a teen if they are drinking alcohol; and the physical, mental and biological effects of drinking on the under-aged. “One of the most prominent issues raised during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown in South Africa, is the serious impact that alcohol abuse has on the country and its people. As producers, Diageo SA believes in taking ownership for its role in helping tackle the problem and building onto the organisation’s more than two decades of work in this area,” said Lebogang Mashigo, sustainability manager, corporate relations, Diageo SA. “DRINKiQ is one of the initiatives we have implemented over the years to help curb the problem of alcohol abuse in South Africa. “It is putting easily accessible information on alcohol consumption in the hands of consumers so that their knowledge is broadened, and they are able to make better and more responsible decisions when it comes to their drinking behaviour and instead increase their relationship with alcohol. We are raising the drink IQ of South Africans,” says Mashigo. Felix Hlophe, local radio personality and funny man, says that his aim through DRINKiQ is to inspire young South Africans to use their talent for good, and to help nurture their success. He also hopes to inspire others, who, like himself, have the necessary resources to act as role models for future generations. “So many lives have been transformed with the right guidance. Many of us would not be where we are today without others who led the way, and we now need to take up the reins and do the same for those who will come after us. “Success in life is often hindered by making the wrong choices and one of those choices is around alcohol. We need to encourage more responsible use and behaviour so that no one is prevented from achieving what they set out to do,” says Hlophe. DRINKiQ also offers a course and quiz,which visitors to its website can take to determine the effects of alcohol on them, and to gauge whether their relationship with alcohol is a responsible one. The Star