Johannesburg - Nasr Moola is determined to follow in his father and uncle’s footsteps who are both in the financial sector and study accounting. Nasr – from Parktown Boys’ High – who obtained a full house of distinctions in his final examinations told The Star that his plan was to study accounting at the Wits University to become a chartered accountant. “For this year I hope to study accounting at Wits to become a chartered accountant and learn more skills. “Around Grade 10 I took accounting in high school and took a liking to the subjects.” He said he felt chartered accounting would suit him as a career as he was good with numbers. “I have always been a person who likes numbers and I think accounting would be more fitting for me. However, I must admit that my father and uncle who are both in the financial sector were my inspiration,” said Nasr. Nasr, who took advanced programme maths as an extra subject proved that indeed numbers were his thing. He got a distinction for the subject last week and as he awaited his results for today he nervously hoped to do the same for his other subjects. The young matriculant said he was grateful to have written his exams as he was nervous and uncertain of the outcome the president would give regarding the academic year. Although the year was riddled with uncertainty, Nasr managed to remain optimistic and found ways to better himself and adapt. “It was mush more difficult to learn the syllabus but it gave me more opportunity to also learn other skills. I had more time as opposed to being stuck in traffic,” he said. Nasr said although he missed a lot of in person interactions, he was able to learn how to use his time more efficiently; he learnt how to use the internet to his academic advantage and to self-motivate. “I missed a lot of in person interactions. I am a bit shy so it was harder for me to approach my teachers on WhatsApp, however I learnt a lot from that experience. Nasr encouraged the Class of 2021 to stay motivated and use their resources to their advantage. “The Class of 2021 need to stay motivated  throughout the entire time as Covid won’t magically go away. They need to stay motivated and use all the resources they have because that will lead them to having a successful matric year.” He obtained distinctions in English Home Language, Afrikaans, maths; life orientation, accounting, geography and physical sciences. He also got 88% on advance programme mathematics IEB.